[music]
You kind of see shades of this K-shaped
economy, K-shaped market.
>> Instead of any sort of dramatic surge
that could reignite inflation pressures,
we will see hiring activity slowly start
to pick up.
>> If employment keeps weakening, if
inflation kind of stays somewhat cool,
it's hard to imagine that the Fed
doesn't cut more. What matters is how
the interplay of the risks and the
tailwinds are going to interplay in
2026.
>> 2026 is really about adaptability.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to the final
trading day of 2025. Stocks on track for
a fourth day of losses in light trading
as investors lack a catalyst to get off
the couch. [music] Jobless claims on
deck as the final economic indicator of
the year with yesterday's Fed minutes
[music] highlighting more rate cuts to
come in 2026 and gold and silver very
much in focus again with the CME raising
margins on precious metal futures for
the second time in a week amid
heightened volatility. John and Ann
Marie are enjoying a well-deserved
holiday. We're holding down the fort
here in New York looking back on a
pivotal year for markets, policy, and
politics. And just to let you know, it
is already New Year, at least if you're
in Auckland, New Zealand. We're kicking
off the new year celebrations. We'll be
uh heading over to Sydney, Australia
next, then Tokyo and Seoul and Beijing.
Before the day is out, we'll have Paris
and London. Full New Year's before
[music] it hits New York City. Just
taking a look back at the year in
markets. It's been a wild ride. Many
superlatives. Another double-digit year
for US equities, the third in a row.
Bonds and stocks both delivering pretty
significant gains. the dollar weakening
at the fastest pace since [music] 2017.
We saw the biggest year for gold and
silver since 1979.
We also saw the worst year for oil since
2020 on supply gluts. And we saw the
best year for Spanish stocks since 1993.
[music]
A key question heading into 2026 is will
the rest of the world continue to
outperform the United States? In the
bond space today, you are seeing a bit
of a bid in. Yield curves have steepened
throughout the world as people face off
with inflation and [music] government
debt. Right now, we are ending with a
bit of a whimper. We begin the day with
stocks poised [music] for a fourth
session of losses. Right now, looking at
just this [music] slight decline and
really led by what we've seen in the
NASDAQ with respect to losses there. And
right now, you are seeing a decline of
about 4/10en of a percent leading
losses. There's a question going into
next year will also be the rotation
trade and will we continue to see it in
the bond space. That yield curve
steepening [music] has been the theme so
far for the year. You see that
continuing this morning. At the front
end you have 3.44%.
That is down from 4.23% to start the
year on the 2-year. [music] 10ear yields
at 4.11%. They started the year at 4.55.
30-year yield slightly above [music]
where they began this year. 4.77 to
start the year. 4.79 [music]
to close out. Coming up this hour,
Michael Pervvis of Talvac and Capital
Advisers [music] as stocks pair back a
strong year of gains. George Pollock of
Signnum Global with healthc care costs
set to jump for millions of Americans
with the ACA subsidies expiring today.
And Michael Reid of RBC as investors eye
one last read on the labor market for
the year. We begin this hour stocks
cutting into gains of more than 17% for
this year. Michael Pervvis of Tobach and
Capital Advisors writing, "The biggest
threat to the S&P next year is the AI
spend will be considered not to generate
compelling returns. This means multiple
contraction for a key part of the
market." Michael joins us now. Michael,
thank you so much for being with us.
Happy New Year to you. Let's start with
this idea of how much AI has really
upheld the rally so far this year. Can
you take a look back and give us a sense
of how dominant that theme was and how
that might be poised to shift in 2026?
>> Well, Lisa, you know, if you look at the
um sort of large tech relative to uh
cyclical and value pair over the last
not year, but the last uh six or seven
years, that line goes up to the right
just like the overall market does. It's
sort of one and the same. And what I've
argued for years now is that the big
tech rally is kind of the broader S&P
rally. U there there's just consistent
outperformance in almost every year
except when you have bare markets uh
like 2022. Uh and even then it wasn't
really that ferociously sold off there.
There's very good reasons for that which
is that they generate not only superior
uh quantity of earnings but the quality
meaning the volatility of those earnings
is remarkably low. And so uh compared to
cyclical value earning streams, they're
just a lot more superior. What I'm
really uh the question I think that I
have as we look into 2026 is that you
have these giant companies. You have,
you know, Microsoft, Meta, Amazon, so
forth. All of them have very distinct
business models. And many of these
companies are really now converging in a
very massive way on this AI spend which
is they're taking their business models
from a very distinct place almost to a
somewhat similar place in some respects
right you know the you know we're
talking about a trillion dollars of cash
out of four companies over the next 24
months here um there so uh just to
finish the thought I I think the
question that I'm I'm I'm really asking
is that if the return on invested
capital is not there and if you look at
the free cash flow yield on stocks like
Microsoft, they're at, you know, record
lows right now. So, the price earnings
and earnings growth ratios look very
compelling. The free cash flow is the
problem. And so, it all works if if if
the if the returns are there, but if
it's not, you're going to see a real rer
rate in the big tech uh pillar of the
market. Is there a signal that you're
getting, Michael, just to sort of build
on this idea from the race of uh some of
the acquisitions that we've seen to
close out the year, whether it's Nvidia,
with Grock, whether it's what we saw
with Meta and that Singapore-based
company having to do with AI, whether
it's what we see right now with Nvidia
potentially acquiring an Israeli based
tech company. I mean, they're using
their free cash flow to do something.
What's the signal for how much this is a
shift in narrative going into 2026?
>> Well, yeah. I mean, I think there it it
does remind me of a little bit of 1998,
1999, 2000 when telecom and tech were
converging and and frantically
uh there was frantic deal activity and
frantic uh capex activity as well. Um
there and of course there were some
ultimately great winners and there were
some a lot of write offs as as well. I
don't think you know like we talk about
FOMO in the stock market and I think
there's FOMO in the seauite here too
which is that all these you know all
these giant companies are frantically
trying to position themselves um uh you
know for the long haul here and in that
process you're going to see a lot of uh
narrative rewrite uh uh going on and a
lot of uh people speculating as to who
the winners and losers ultimately are.
Um, you know, I I go back to, you know,
3 years ago when Google had that all
hands- on deck meeting uh because they
were frantically behind in AI um and
Open AI was going to clean their clock
and, you know, here we are and that
narrative seems to have just twisted on
its head here. I still think it's still
so early in this game that it's very
hard to declare
uh you know, where the ultimate um uh
winners are going to be. I mean, I think
that, you know, I talked to a lot of
tech executives there that are on the
for on the front lines of AI and they
are just sort of bewildered by by how
this stuff is going to shake out uh uh
themselves and they're and they're in
this uh market every day.
>> Well, to me, this really goes to the
question of how do you broaden out,
right? What does it mean to diversify?
Everyone who's come on this show to end
the year has said that diversification
is the key for next year. We've seen
that in the precious metals trade,
although it's arguable that that's not
exactly diversification, particularly
like when it comes to silver. How much
do you see equal weight as being true
diversification in this type of
backdrop?
>> Well, over the really since uh last
January, I started pushing this
narrative that you know, as much as I
love the big tech story and the core
part of the portfolio, if you want to
rotate and diversify, not to go into US
cyclical and values. Now obviously
there's a lot of specific sectors and
specific stocks that have done
incredibly well this year in the United
States but thematically at the index
level what I had advocated for was a
rotation into uh European equities uh
which were sort of the ugly ducklings um
uh for so long and in some respects they
still are. I think uh where I am right
now is is that look, you know, we've got
the SX5E, what you call it, the S&P for
for the European continent, that has
outperformed most every US index in
local terms. Uh almost caught up with a
MAG 7 index. Um and on on on a currency
adjusted basis, it's it's blown away
most every US major equity index. So
looking forward to 2026 where I'm at
right now is I think that's going to
happen. It's a very different set of
dynamics. So I think look if if the
Germans really are going to start
committing to this stimulus and I think
that's happening. It's hard to tell but
that is sort of a massive and a very
different type of force than say the AI
force right you know when you're talking
about this pretty significant um economy
really pushing stimulus to a place that
it's never been. they have the fiscal
space to do it unlike many other
sovereign nations in the developed world
right there and that's that that will be
really resonate uh uh there meanwhile I
think and for the US cyclical value
trade well there's still a lot of I
think sentiment tied to that so if you
are concerned about the tech I don't
want to use the word bubble but the you
know the tech theme um uh the dominance
of tech theme if you're sort of worried
about that kind of not really working
next year Um to me I think it's it's I I
sort of see Europe as a as a pretty good
place with a caveat that the rally this
year has been driven largely by PE
expansion and the relative to pees from
Europe to say their US counterparts are
in a less compelling place than they
were 12 months ago.
>> Yeah. And we have seen that
outperformance particularly on a dollar
adjusted basis so far this year. Just
taking a [clears throat] step back
heading into next year, you talk about
the fiscal space and one theme for 2025
has been yield curve steepening. Bespoke
Investment Group put out a chart showing
that on the Bloomberg Global Aggregate
Index. You saw the biggest yield curve
steepening going back to the steepest
levels since uh 2016. How much do you
expect this to continue and for bonds to
fail to provide that haven particularly
on the long end?
Hello. So, Lisa, you cut out for a
second. I think I froze up.
>> Michael, I'm so sorry. Let's leave it
there. I think we're having some
technical difficulties. Michael,
wonderful to hear your thoughts and I'm
sorry to leave it on that note. Michael
Pervvis of Tallaching Capital Advisors.
Happy New Year to you and hopefully
we'll see you soon. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Let's head over to London. Your
Bloomberg brief with our very own Lizzie
Burton. Lizzy,
>> hi Lisa. Warner Brothers Discovery is
planning to [music] reject a takeover
bid from Paramount after the company
amended its terms for its offer. Sources
[music] telling us here at Bloomberg
that Warner Brothers board will meet
next week to make a final decision. The
board's [music] concerned that Paramount
has yet to increase its offer, which was
earlier rejected as inferior to the one
from Netflix. Elsewhere, money manager
Michael Bur made famous of course by the
big short denying being short Tesla
shares despite calling the company
ridiculously overvalued earlier this
month. [music] Bur's comments come after
Tesla took the unusual step of
publishing a series of sales estimates
indicating the outlook for its [music]
vehicle deliveries may be lower than
many investors were expecting. And you
were just discussing the metals. Gold
and silver are slipping in this final
trading day of 2025, [music]
though both remain on track for the
record annual performances. The past few
weeks have marked a tumultuous end to a
historic year for precious metals. And
these wild reversals prompted the CME to
raise margin requirements on precious
[music] metal futures for the second
time in less than a week. And that's
your Bloomber brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Lizzie. And it raises
a question about the banking sector as
well as the shadow banking sector. And
we'll get into that later in the show.
Up next, American healthcare.
>> These Obamacare subsidies are expiring
now. More than 20 million Americans are
now bracing for their premiums to
skyrocket.
>> They will skyrocket because it was never
any good. It's a bad thing. We can have
a great thing. Let the money go directly
to the people and let them buy their own
healthcare. George Pollock of Signal
Global joins us as we look at ACA
subsidies [music] expiring at the end of
today from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
Well, perhaps we didn't get a Santa
Claus rally, but we got the rally that
everybody wanted and maybe didn't expect
this year. The third straight year of
doubledigit gains. Really seeing the
track record that we saw back preandemic
and the immediate aftermath of it. Right
now you're seeing a little bit of edge
come off that froth. What we are seeing
is the NASDAQ leading stocks [music]
lower, futures lower by about a third of
a percent. This is the fourth straight
day potentially of losses. People lack a
catalyst to really do anything. Very
thin trading. [music] What we have
noticed in the bond space yield curve
steepening and this is a global
phenomenon. Take a look at 2-year yields
3.45%.
They started the year at 5 [music] point
excuse me 4.23%.
They have come down more than 80 basis
points. 10-year yields 4.11. They
started the year at 5 point 4.55,
[music] excuse me. We haven't seen those
kinds of levels in quite a while. The
30-year yield is actually higher than
where it was to start the year at 4.77%.
And it is another basis point higher
today. The yield curve steepening has
been the main theme for bond markets
around the world and raises a question
about how much this has to do with
fiscal uh prowess. The idea of how much
government debt there is as well as
potential inflation when it comes to the
fiscal backdrop under surveillance this
morning. American [music] healthcare.
These Obamacare subsidies are expiring
now. More than 20 million Americans are
now bracing for their premiums to
skyrocket.
>> They will skyrocket because it was never
any good. I'd like to see the money that
is going to the insurance companies by
the hundreds of billions of dollars.
Their stocks are up through the roof
over a fairly short period of time
because they're getting vast amounts of
money. I want that money to go to the
people directly and let the people buy
their own healthcare and uh they'll get
much better health care than they get
with the unaffordable care act. It's a
bad thing. We can have a great thing.
Let the money go directly to the people
and let them buy their own healthcare.
Here's the latest. Enhanced Affordable
Care Act subsidies are set to expire
tonight, sending premiums skyrocketing
and impacting coverage for millions of
Americans. Congress failing to find a
resolution before the deadline.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now.
Tyler, can you give us a sense of what's
going to happen at midnight tonight?
What has been the discussion in
Washington DC and what steps might
possibly come early in 2026?
>> Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, this is
going to have potentially huge impacts
for millions of Americans when it comes
to higher prices, but then also
potentially losing coverage. Data cited
by Bloomberg News estimates that out-of-
pocket premiums are going to more than
double for those on Obamacare. Now, as
you mentioned, we're talking about the
enhanced subsidies, these were the tax
credits that were expanding expanded
under a pandemic era law. So starting
tomorrow, those tax credit levels are
going to snap back to prepandemic levels
for lower and middle inome households,
but then they're going to go away
completely for households earning more
than four times the federal poverty
line. Now, as you mentioned, Congress
failed to act, but there are a few ideas
on the table, but just keep in mind
here, lawmakers aren't back in
Washington until January 5th. One is we
are going to get a vote on a so-called
clean three-year extension. The
Congressional Budget Office estimates
that this will add $83 billion to the
deficit. That is at least one of the
reasons why Republicans remain divided
over whether or not they will support
any type of extension, though they are
pretty aligned that if there is an
extension, there has to be structural
changes such as an income cap or
anti-fraud protections. That's why we're
keeping our eyes on this effort that's
brewing in the other chamber in the
Senate, a bipartisan plan that would
include some of those structural changes
and then pair it with perhaps a shorter
term extension like one or two years
essentially to buy lawmakers time so
that they can come up with a broader
health care plan down the road. Now,
Lisa, it's important for us to mention
that these ACA premium subsidies, these
are refundable tax credits that are
calculated on an annual basis. That's
why even though we're already past the
deadline, you could still see an
extension be retroactive. Rather, when I
talk to people on the Hill, they're less
concerned about getting this money
ultimately back into consumers pockets
and more concerned about those consumers
that may not enroll if they wake up and
see sticker shock and say they don't
want one of these plans.
>> Just quickly here, Tyler, there is this
question of another deadline that's
coming in January that could potentially
lead to another government shutdown. How
much discussion is there of another
shutdown uh on Capitol Hill?
>> So, this is something that uh it could
go either way. I have to say a lot of
the people that we actually are talking
to here in Washington think that we're
going to avoid it because Congress has
actually done a lot of the leg work
already to accomplish their actual job
which is appropriating the spending for
the year. We could see another hold up
of course related to this healthc care
uh battle that is going on as we know
that uh Democrats are really trying to
hold Republicans feet to the fire. In
fact, we've already started to see
campaign ads for the midterm starting
now. That has to do with potentially
these rising health care costs. But uh
Lisa, as of now, we'll see what happens
when they come back in January. But uh
the odds are actually towards that we
may avoid uh that shutdown at the end.
That will be a note of relief at least
for the airline industry as well as all
the other federal workers out there.
Tyler Kendall, thank you so much and
we'll see you later in the show. Joining
us now is George Pollock of Signal
Signnum Global. Can you just give us a
sense and great to see you George
stepping back how much of a focus this
is for Republicans to keep some sort of
health care solution? How much it is a
popular thing for them to do heading
into the midterm elections? Well, the
biggest issue for Republicans is healthc
care is the one issue where Democrats
pull better than Republicans. This is
the issue where Democrats can really go
on offense and say we have the better
ideas or at least the more popular ideas
and going into a midterm election that's
already going to be a challenge when
they when they've had the trifecta in
DC. Allowing these pre these subsidies
to expire and exposing people to
doubling of healthcare premiums is just
not sustainable, especially if they want
to keep the house. We were talking at
the end of last year or the beginning of
LA of this year, excuse me, about uh
cutting the budget deficit and about
cutting expenses. Doge was a big effort.
Now there is a question of how much of
those cuts are going to basically come
back onto the balance sheet, whether
it's AIPA or whether it's some of these
subsidies get that get passed over. I'm
just wondering from your perspective how
much of a focus cutting the budget
deficit still is in Washington DC.
>> Look, I think it's a great line. And I
think when you're the party out of
power, it's something you discuss and
you've seen moderate Democrats talk
about it and you've seen most
Republicans talk about it. But the
reality is when they passed the one big
beautiful bill, yes, that made tax cuts
in the tax system permanent and made,
you know, gave businesses and Americans
idea of permanence, but it also cost
billions and it cost a significant
amount of money and added to the
deficit. It's a great campaign line, but
unless there's no real appetite for
embracing entitlement reform or anything
like that because it really is the third
rail of US politics. How do you see 2026
being different politically than 2025
given the fact that the midterm
elections are coming up and what
happened in the mid midterm elections
that we just saw?
I think what you're really going to see
is these moderate Republicans who voted
for things like the one big beautiful
bill, who have defended the president,
who are facing a very tough re-elect,
and with Democrats getting some pretty
strong recruits in moderate districts,
they're going to really try to separate
themselves from the administration, and
they're going to really try to stake out
themselves as independent or
focusoriented members of Congress who
just want to do what's best for America.
And I think with Speaker Johnson having
a very narrow majority, that's going to
be something that he struggles to
navigate, especially if he wants to do a
second reconciliation bill.
>> George, there's something that not a lot
of people are talking about, but is
coming up increasingly on talk shows as
well as just in oped pages across the
country, across the world, how much of a
focus there's going to be on artificial
intelligence and either regulating it or
providing some sort of safety net.
Should there be some sort of mass job
loss in the wake of a real adoption that
does mean that certain humans are not
needed anymore? How much of a discussion
is there in Washington DC about this as
we uh head into 2026?
>> I think what you're going to see is the
Republican the administration has fully
embraced AI as the next great thing for
the US economy. And what you're going to
see is the likes of both Republicans, so
like Governor Ron DeSantis or Governor
Spencer Cox and you're going to see
Democrats as well campaign against the
administration's whole hog embrace.
You've already seen Senator Bernie
Sanders talk about suspending data
center construction. I think what I put
it a parallel to is when they were
negotiating the original NAFTA and that
trade disruption and the job disruption.
I think Democrats are going to say
you're disrupting American jobs. You're
take you're threatening social stability
and you're increasing cost and things
like energy and they're going to use it
as a huge attack line for the president
especially because Americans are pretty
divided. I think there was a recent poll
out that only by 5% are they really
positive about AI and that's really
people who haven't yet learned all the
details and I think as Democrats hit the
administration and the likes of David
Sachs I think that's going to be a very
potent issue for Democrats in particular
in 2026.
>> You mentioned Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont he is going to be at the
inauguration of Zoron Mdani I believe
tonight along with AOC along with a host
of other progressive Democrats. I just
wonder what this really signifies for
the Democratic party in 2026, not
necessarily Zoran Mandani's
inauguration, but just is this going to
be the mainstream of the Democratic
party heading into the next presidential
election season?
>> Look, I think that's a fantastic
question. If you're a tri-state Democrat
like Laura Gillan or Tom Suazi, you're
not happy about this because you're
going to have to run against Manny and
you're going to have to deal with the
after effects of Mani's policies. But I
think in reality, this midterm election
is going to be a referendum on the
president, a referendum on Republicans.
And when the Democratic party has the
likes of Marie Glucen Perez in
Washington, Jake Anelos in
Massachusetts, and formerly Jared Golden
in Maine, it's really just going to be
Yeah. Dem Republicans will try to make
it circa Nancy Pelosi 2006 2008, but
it's really not going to fly when
Americans are more concerned about
increasing health premiums, increasing
energy cost, and the potential threat of
AI.
>> George Pollock of Signnum Global, thank
you so much for being with us. Have a
wonderful new year. I'm sure we will
catch up with you in 2026. Right now,
what we do see in markets is a fourth
day of softness as traders essentially
stay on the couch. It seems like there's
not a lot of motivation to get off of it
and take any action. The last economic
indicator that we get of 2025 will be
coming at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. That will
come in the form of jobless claims.
Coming up, we'll be wrapping up a
volatile year for commodities, including
our conversation with Chevron CEO Mike
Worth. We have seen the biggest one-year
decline in oil futures [music] going
back to 2020. We'll discuss why. Plus,
Lizzie Burton with your morning movers.
Nike jumping after a big stock purchase
by its chief executive. Those shares up
almost 2%. From New York, this is
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance. Good
morning.
[music]
It looks like we're setting up for a
fourth day of losses. Although meager
losses after a blockbuster [music] year
for equities, the third in a row right
now. Just taking a little bit of heat
out of that 210 of a percent decline on
the S&P leaving out that Euro dollar
cross around the same place where
[music] we've been for quite a while at
that 117 mark. 411 on the 10-year with
yields lower by about a basis point.
Silver, look at that. Lower by 5.6%.
Yesterday it was higher by 5.8%. The day
before it was down by 9%. No wonder that
the CME Group is raising its uh margin
requirements for the second [music] time
in a week. Three hours away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers
with Lizzie Burton. Lizzie, hey Lisa.
Well, we're going to kick off with Nike
shares this morning. The CEO Elliot Hill
buying a million dollars worth of stock.
So, following in the footsteps of the
Apple CEO, Tim Cook. He bought three
million worth about a week ago and those
shares up nearly [music] 2% in the
pre-market. You talked a lot about
metals this morning, so let me take you
there. Next, we're looking at some of
the big miners down this morning as the
metals slide as well. New gold here down
1 and a4%. [music] But just for context,
of course, the metals have had a banner
year so far as have these stocks. New
gold up about 255% year to date. So,
these moves are dropping [music] the
ocean. Finally, a good news uh bit for
you if you're on the roads this holiday
season. Vander Pharmaceuticals has
[music] had its motion sickness drug
approved by the FDA. It's been a long
old road with the FDA to get this over
the line, but that stock soaring 21.6%
[music]
as a result in the pre-market. Lisa,
back to you. Just in time for all those
long car rides for the holiday. Thank
you so much, Lizzy. On our radar this
morning, minutes from the December Fed
meeting showing officials expect more
rate cuts ahead should inflation
continue cooling. However, policymakers
remain divided on timing, suggesting the
central bank may hold steady for some
time. Meanwhile, Nvidia is reportedly in
advanced talks to buy Israelbased AI
startup AI21 Labs for as much as $3
billion. According to Israeli media,
AI21 has long been up for sale, and
talks with Nvidia have advanced
significantly in recent weeks. It does
seem like all of that cash in the
balance sheets of big tech are burning
some holes in their pockets and they're
looking to spend it uh and spend it a
lot this year. Warner Brothers,
meanwhile, is planning to reject a
revised takeover bid from Paramount Sky
Downs next week. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg the board views the offer
as inferior to a rival bid for Netflix
uh from Netflix, excuse me, citing
concerns over the price tag and a lack
of debt management. The Ellison family
very much in the hot seat. Turning to
commodities, a blockbuster year for
metals. Oil, however, slipping by the
most since 2020. Bloomberg's Will
Kennedy joins us now for more. Will,
this morning we're seeing some firming
up in oil prices. How much can OPEC's
latest decision change a surplus that we
have seen that has really marked the
bulk of the action in 2025?
>> In the short term, Lisa, probably not
much. The expectation is that OPEC will
stand pat at this meeting and stay at
current supply levels. As we look into
2026,
many analysts see the potential for
further declines from here down through
the 50s to the perhaps the bottom of the
sort of $50 range. When that happens, I
think many people expect that OPEC will
have to react in some way and start the
work of withdrawing some of this surplus
we see from the market and running down
what looked like pretty ample global
inventories. How much do we see at this
point uh just some sort of deficit
building not necessarily this year or
next year but into 2027 or 2028 as
certain producers ratchet back their
production in response to this glut.
Is the old adage Lisa that the best uh
cure for an over supply is over supply
that in eventually it will do its work
that prices will reach a level where uh
discipline will be forced on the market
that uh producers won't be able to drill
profitably and they'll have to cut back
on investment. There are people who
think that this glut will in time in a
couple of years as you say actually lead
to the potential for a medium-term bull
market for oil because the investment
won't be there and supply sorry demand
continues to rise. It's been very
resilient since the end of the pandemic.
It's probably exceeded most people's
expectations. The energy transition is
not going as fast as many people
expected. uh EVs as we've seen in the
latter part of this year. Uh that story
is a little troubled right now and the
and that most people expect if the
global economy continues to grow, oil
demand will grow healthfully and that
will in time erode the surplus combined
with the discipline of low prices that
we're seeing this year and we're likely
to see at least in the first half of
next year.
>> Well, there has been a huge source of
demand coming from China over the past
couple of decades. How much has that
shifted in terms of China's reliance on
fossil fuels shifting to their nuclear
power plants, their electric vehicle uh
supplies, some of their lithium
production, the fact that they have
adopted more renewable sources to shift
away from oil.
>> Yeah, you're quite right to say that,
you know, I did paint a picture of the
energy transition not going quite as
fast as people expected, but it has been
extremely rapid and extremely deep in
China. China hasn't embraced uh electric
cars like few other nations have. I was
in Shanghai in the early part of the
year and it's remarkable to see the
number of EVs on the road in in that
city and we have seen that come through
in much much slower oil demand growth in
China. Gasoline demand has almost
certainly peaked in China. We are now
starting to see liqufied natural gas
make inroads into diesel demand too. Um
so that is definitely part of the
picture but at the same time the Chinese
economy continues to grow. Its energy
demand continues to grow and it grows on
a very broad base. Yes there are lots of
renewables but it's worth mentioning
that oil demand in the broad uh terms
continues to tick higher. Uh gas demand
is ticking higher. Coal demand has yet
to peak um in the Chinese economy. So it
remains a very energyhungry economy and
so you're not going to lose huge amounts
of oil demand from China perhaps and we
have other economies coming to fill the
gap uh [clears throat] India of course
but other emerging economies uh in Asia
in Africa in Latin America.
>> Will Kennedy, thank you so much for
being with us as always. Have a
wonderful new year. Meanwhile, crude is
not there yet. It's on track for its
deepest annual loss since the pandemic.
producers weighing geopolitical tensions
against concerns about that global glut
we were just speaking with earlier this
month and Marine and myself caught up
with Chevron CEO Mike Worth and
discussed his outlook for 2026 and
beyond.
>> We make our investment plans on a
long-term basis. We look at supply and
demand well out into the future. And so
the the the price of uh oil today can
affect short-term financial performance
of the company, but it really doesn't
play as much into some of the longer
term investment plans. uh as we we look
down the road, not really out the window
as we we decide what the the capital
program looks like.
>> But how do you reconcile the two because
you're doing a lot of exploration
internationally and to Lisa's point,
prices are low and potentially are going
to even go lower.
>> Well, exploration uh is a long cycle
business. The we just brought a project
online in uh the the Gulf of America
last year where the discovery was made
20 years prior. And so the the timeline
between when you actually make a
discovery uh when you appraise that and
you ultimately develop it and bring it
to market can be years or even decades.
And so we really have to uh take that
long view on on the business and uh you
know in the short term uh we'll keep
cost tight. We've guided to you know
industryleading free cash flow over the
next few years is bring cost down,
capital spending down uh increase the
the synergies on the HS transaction. Uh
so we're going to deliver strong
financial performance through the cycle
>> based on what the IEA has said
recalibrated where they see oil demand
growing. It was 2030 now it's 2050. OPEC
says they had a rendevous with reality
seeing that the world needs a lot more
of this a lot more fossil fuels. If
outlook is so strong should Chevron
should these big oil companies should
they increasing more of that investment?
>> Well uh on the IEA even a bloke broken
clock is right twice a day. So they uh
have finally acknowledged what we've
long known which is that the world will
continue using oil and gas for many
decades into the future. Uh we are uh in
that long cycle business and uh you know
the the capital spending uh Amarie has
become more efficient in our industry. A
decade ago uh we were spending money on
big projects. There was a lot of growth
going on in shale at a relatively high
cost structure and the entire industry
has found ways to standardize designs,
simplify projects and actually get more
for every capital dollar that we spend.
So, so the size of our capital spending
doesn't necessarily uh correlate to the
the growth the way that it would have in
years gone by.
>> You've been talking about the capital
profile and investments and how it's
become a lot more efficient to make the
same kinds of uh sort of investments and
and frankly the same kind of output.
Where is this efficiency coming from? Is
it coming from artificial intelligence?
Is it becoming is it coming from just
better technology and getting oil and
gas out of the ground?
>> Yeah. So, uh in shale for instance,
which is something the US has been a
world leader in, uh a decade ago, break
evens were $70 or $80 a barrel. Today,
they're they're not even half of that.
as we found ways to drill longer
laterals to optimize the spacing of
wells to complete wells uh at lower cost
with with greater production coming out
of them. So, it's a series of things in
the deep water. Uh we've simplified and
standardized designs and what used to
take um you know $30 a barrel or more in
terms of uh cost of capital to go into a
project now has been been cut in half.
And so uh it's not driven by AI yet. Uh
I do think over time we're going to see
uh technologies like that continue this
path that we're on.
>> We're going to get to that in just a
second. If that's the case, if you can
get more even at a break even cost, it's
a lot lower. Why has the rig count gone
down so much? Why aren't there more rigs
coming online given the capacity here in
the United States?
>> Because we can we can drill more feet
per day with a rig today than we could
in the past. And so we rig count is not
nearly as interesting a metric as how
many feet a day you can drill, how many
wells you can complete in a period of
time. And so we're getting more work
done out of fewer pieces of equipment
today.
>> You talk about how AI isn't delivering
those efficiencies yet. The indication
being that maybe down the road it might
be the case. Where specifically are you
thinking and and I'm saying at a time
when Chevron's cutting staff, so are
other people. Is this a headcount issue?
Is this something else? How are you
seeing it being deployed?
>> Well, we're in I think we're still in
the very early days of applying AI at
scale in our industry. Uh, one of the
things that's undeniable about AI is it
needs lots of data. A company like ours
has as much data as just about any
company in the world. And so we've got
decades and decades of geologic data,
seismic data, operating data, all of
which can be used to feed these models
to optimize operations, uh to improve
our exploration success, uh to uh
squeeze more production out of existing
assets. And so uh we see huge
opportunities uh to run our business
with smarter technology, get better
decisions made faster. Um, and so
there's a there's certainly a cost
dimension to this, but I think the real
opportunity is going to be about the
productivity of our assets and our
business.
>> You announced this project, the first of
its kind to provide natural gas fired
power for data centers. Do you expect to
do more of these projects and what's the
update on this one in West Texas?
>> Well, certainly the demand for power has
been, you know, talked about now for the
last year or so as the constraint in the
growth of of AI data centers. uh in the
ambition for data centers at a scale
we've never seen before is uh has become
a common place u the reality is uh we
need largecale power. What we're working
on is um off the grid power because it's
also becoming an issue with electricity
prices and we're seeing this show up in
in consumer sentiment in elections. Uh
our our approach is to develop u
gigawatt scale uh power generation not
through the grid but dedicated to data
centers. Uh we've got a project in a
couple of sites actually we're working
on in West Texas uh where we've got a
lot of natural gas. Uh we've got large
uh gas turbines, the largest in the
world being delivered starting next year
and uh we're deep into discussions with
multiple customers that would like to
site data centers uh to use this power.
>> You're at the center of a lot of
politically very important
conversations, not just when it comes to
AI, not just when it comes to lucil
assets, also Venezuela, the only
American company left. Can you give us
an update on either conversations with
the administration, your team on the
ground? What is the future of Chevron in
this country as the president sense
maybe he's going to send troops there?
>> Yeah, I I I I don't know what the
president's intentions are. Um we've
been in Venezuela for for the last 100
years. Uh our presence there we believe
is uh important for the local economy,
the regional economy, the people of
Venezuela. Uh the Venezuelan oil is
sought after by US refiners and we
operate there in full compliance with
all US law and sanctions. We're in
discussions with the administration to
ensure that we stay in compliance that
they understand uh the value that our
presence uh brings to America and uh and
so you know that's
>> and you plan on being there for the long
term.
>> Venezuela actually has more oil and gas
resource than Saudi Arabia. Uh it's
right here in our hemisphere very close
to the Gulf Coast refining complex and
uh we've been there through ups and
downs and like many places in the world
uh we have to take a long view on our
presence in countries like this.
>> That was our conversation with Chevron
CEO Mike Worth earlier this month. Right
now let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Lizzie Burton.
Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. Tatiana Schllober,
granddaughter of former President John
F. Kennedy has died at the age of 35.
She had disclosed and detailed her
battle with acute myoid leukemia, a
cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
Schlothberg was an enterprising
journalist who wrote for the Metro and
Science Desks of the New York Times
before transitioning into freelance
writing. Elsewhere, Elon Musk's XAI has
purchased a third building in Memphis to
expand its data center complex. The
billionaire wrote on X that will bring
the company's AI computing capacity to
almost 2 [music] GAWW. Musk has publicly
discussed the plans to build the world's
largest data center for AI [music]
training and posted earlier this year
that Colossus 2 will eventually have
550,000 chips from Nvidia. And revelers
wanting to celebrate the new year in New
York's Time Square will need to wrap up.
New York City temperatures are projected
to drop as low as 26° Fahrenheit with a
chance of snow later in the night.
Meanwhile, on the West Coast, there's a
rising risk of flash floods in Los
Angeles. And there's a near 100% chance
of a wet New Year's Day rose parade, but
a 100% chance of fun. That's been my
brief, Lisa. Thank you so much, Lizzie.
Up next, investors awaiting one more
read on the labor market. Michael Reid
of RBC joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Seeing a fourth day of softness after a
real blockbuster year for equities right
now taking some edge off that down about
2/10en of a percent on S&P futures. The
Euro dollar cross has been around that
117 level for quite a while and 10ear
yields lower by about a basis point to
just a little under 4.11%. Silver we're
keeping track of just because it's
[music] been so volatile down 9% up 5
1/2% down 5 and a half%. This is the
reason why you have the likes of the CME
Group coming out and limiting some of
their uh margin or asking for more
margin uh [music] for some of the trades
under surveillance this morning. The
state of the labor market. Investors are
waiting the last read on employment in
2025. Job's claims due at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern for the holiday shortened week.
Michael Reed of RBC Capital Markets
writing, "We maintain our view that
tariffs will weigh on the labor market
and put upward pressure on inflation,
reinforcing that the US economy is
experiencing stagflation light." Michael
joins us now in the flesh in New York.
Thank you so much for being here on this
New Year's Eve. I'm just wondering from
your perspective, stagflation light,
what does that mean and why do you see
that taking hold in 2026?
>> Sure, and thanks for having me. So, what
we are expecting is generally below
trend growth. that means below 2% and
inflation that remains uncomfortably
high uh really in that core space. So
when you think about some of the
dynamics and it's not just tariffs I
should add uh we just think it's going
to be really hard to get back to 2% uh
even if you take tariffs off the table.
>> Does it seem like Fed officials really
care? I mean based on the meeting
minutes there was a priority on the
labor market, not necessarily inflation.
>> Yeah, I think they do care. And what's
really interesting is if you look at
what they've said, uh, especially in the
last meeting, um, you know, you include
the fact that they view tariffs as being
transitory, yet they're starting to take
that cautious approach. They think
they've gotten to a place that, uh, is
much more closer to neutral. Uh, so
they're concerned about the inflationary
pressure, not just from tariffs, but
coming from other places. And we think
that's showing up in the services space
in particular, as it relates to labor
supply. So, where exactly are you seeing
this inflationary pressure? I can hear
Neil Data in my head saying, "Look at
housing. You're not seeing any
inflationary pressure there." In fact,
the housing data yesterday, we did get
some signs that maybe it's picking up,
but otherwise, you've seen pretty much
flat home prices across the country. I
mean, at what point do you see some sort
of inflationary pressure that could be
sticky?
>> We see it in the wage space. And, you
know, when you think about some of the
dynamics that we're seeing in terms of
supply, uh we have immigration that's
falling. we have retirements that we
think continue to accelerate. Um at the
same time, your demand for labor while
slowing um still hanging in there. So
what that means is you're going to have
a situation where the need for workers
is still there. Um it's just showing up
as replacement demand. So payrolls
aren't going to look great by any means,
but we are going to expect an
environment where the unemployment rate
remains low. We think it plateaus around
four and a half% for most of this year.
Uh and that just means you you're going
to have an environment where wage
pressures uh stay elevated.
>> Yeah. Well, so this is definitely the
truth when it comes to healthcare. We've
seen the bulk of hiring so far this year
in healthcare. We're getting older. We
still need to be taken care of. Uh this
does though raise a question about other
sectors and what that means about the
strength of the labor market. I mean,
how durable is some of the strength that
we've seen if it is concentrated in a
completely recessionproof area like
healthcare?
>> I mean, healthcare is a big one. So
again, going back to this demographic
story, you think about the sheer size of
the population that's now over 65. You
have about just under 40 million people
in the workforce right now who are 55
plus. So they're approaching that
retirement age. That's who we're really
focused on. Those are the folks who are
going to continue to use health care
services across the board. Uh so that's
a sector that we expect both will
continue to hire at a very healthy clip.
50 to 60,000 jobs per month over the
next 5 years uh seems very reasonable to
us. Uh and in addition you do have that
price pressure. So when you think about
uh some of the the factors impacting
prices uh in terms of of tariffs but as
well as supply chains uh that's going to
continue to put upward pressure on uh
services. So for health care uh which is
a very you know service inensive uh type
of uh sector there's there's very little
relief that we expect to see there.
>> There's a theory that the Fed is trying
to run the economy hot to keep people
employed as we get this structural shift
with artificial intelligence that as
people become less necessary you want to
keep as many people as possible employed
before we get to whatever that next
future is. How much credence do you do
you see in that? Do you think that that
is wise for them to take that approach
given some of the cannibalization from
human jobs?
>> I mean, look, their dual mandate is uh
low prices and stable employment. So, I
I think that aligns to what they're
they're trying to do in terms of the
mandate. Now, the outcomes for AI are
still very early. Um, could we see a
productivity boost? Absolutely, we
expect that. Do we expect to see in
2026? Not so much. Um, but when you
think about some of the dynamics that
are going on right now over the next
four to five years, when you account for
that retirement boom that we continue to
see and the slowdown in immigration,
you're going to need more workers. And
if you don't have it coming from the
outside, you know, that immigration
story, um, AI is going to have an very a
very important role to play there to
help supplement uh, the falling labor
supply. So um that could help offset
some of those inflationary pressures
coming in the wage space.
>> Just in a shorter term times phrase, we
are going to get some real data in
January that people think will be some
cleaner uh data points to look at when
the Fed meets on January 28th. What are
you expecting when it comes to both CPI
and of course the jobs report for the
month of December? So we're going to get
a lot of of mixed signals uh here again
even in December Q1 uh for for the jobs
report. You know like the Fed we expect
that the number will be uh you know look
okay at face value but you have to
subtract out the benchmark revisions
that are going to come from QCW. So
already you have to take out 50 to
70,000 jobs per month uh based on that
revision. So that that's a big part of I
think how the Fed is thinking about
this. Um especially as it relates to
that break even pace of employment.
That's why we've seen that unemployment
rate rise despite uh rather healthy job
gains uh from the payroll report. In
terms of CPI, you know, for December, we
think we continue to see kind of a
modest uh slowdown in terms of the pace,
but it's really [music] Q1 that's our
concern. We've seen these seasonal
quirks uh notably in January. Yeah,
>> and we think that could be, you know,
more [music] pronounced as tariff
pressure starts to add up in the start
of 2026.
>> Michael Reed of RBC, thank you so much
for being with us. Coming up next,
Bloomberg's Matt Miller does enter the
building. He joins me alongside Barbara
Duran of BD8 Capital. Bloomberg's
Matthew Griffin and Chris McGrady of
KBW. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> You kind of see shades of this K-shaped
economy, K-shaped market. Instead of any
sort of dramatic surge that could
reignite inflation pressures, we will
see hiring activity slowly start to pick
up.
>> If employment keeps weakening, if
inflation kind of stays somewhat cool,
it's hard to imagine that the Fed
doesn't cut more. What matters is how
the interplay of [music] the risks and
the tailwinds are going to interplay in
2026.
>> 2026 is really about adaptability.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks poised for a fourth
straight day of losses with traders
lacking a reason to shift around their
equity holdings after a blockbuster year
in the stock space. But some big moves
out there today, particularly in
precious metals [music] with escalating
volatility prompting CME Group to hike
margins for the second time in a week
and getting the final economic release
of 2025 with Java's claims on deck as
Fed officials signal two more rate cuts
to come in 2026. Matt Miller, I am so
pleased to [music] say, has graced us
with his presence and will be joining us
for the next two hours in a very snazzy
sport. Is this like a New Year's Eve
thing? Is this a Christmas thing? No,
it's I mean it could be either one,
[laughter]
right? Um but I figured for New Year's
Eve, it doesn't have to be dark blue or
black. Um and why not? You know, we've
had a banner year. We're up what 90% in
3 years. We haven't had a run like this
since the dot uh boom. So, uh let's
[music] celebrate.
>> Yeah. And if we get another double digit
uh return for next year, just wait to
see what Matt wears. And there is this
question about looking back and what
we've seen so far this year and what it
means for the path ahead. I'm thinking
of the dollar in particular weakening at
the fastest pace going back to [music]
2017. A question of whether this will
continue Matt and what this means given
the outperformance that we've seen in
gold and silver which have delivered the
best annual performance so far going
back to 1979.
>> Yeah, the outperformance of gold and
silver has been remarkable. Even with um
the the slight drops that we're seeing
today, there's still eyepopping
year-to-date gains. The dollar's uh
weakness, I mean, 2017 wasn't really
that long ago. And I thought, and a lot
of people told me on on my show,
Bloomberg Open Interest, that it would
be a lot worse at the beginning of this
year. So, um I think it we're doing
pretty well to cap it at only an eight
or nine% loss for the year. The big
question for next year is this just the
beginning or is this the uh extent of
any kind of declines that we're seeing
in the dollar and what does the decline
of the dollar versus those precious
metals mean going forward. Right now in
markets we're not seeing a whole a lot
of action. Although again as Matt
[music] was saying we've seen a 90% gain
in three years and he is wearing a very
important suit jacket to represent that.
right now taking some froth out of that
210 of a percent decline on S&P futures.
Yields lower by about two basis points
on the 10-year to 4.1%. Crude getting a
bit of a bid after the worst year for
the fossil fuel going back to the height
of the pandemic. Coming up this hour,
Barbara Duran of BD8 as the Fed minutes
reveal deep divisions with the FOMC.
[music]
Uh Bloomberg's Matthew Griffin as the AI
trade shifts to pick and shovel stocks.
and Chris McGrady of KBW with US banks
on track for a strong 2026. We begin
this hour with stocks struggling to find
momentum as rifts within the Federal
Reserve raise questions over future
cuts. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us
now from Washington DC. Tyler, great to
have you back. A real question here
about what we learned from the meeting
minutes. You were tracking them all.
>> Yeah. Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, most
participants saw the need for future
cuts as inflation declines over time,
but they remain divided on when and how
much to cut. The minutes really put a
finer point on the fact that this is a
divided FOMC and the considerable
differences as policymakers weigh the
risks between inflation and employment.
And we got insight into just how close
this December meeting was. that some of
the participants who voted in favor of
the cut saying that their decision was
quote finally balanced and that actually
they could have voted instead to keep
the target range unchanged. The minutes
really did read like this back and forth
conversation with at one point some
participants pointing to the risk that
higher inflation could become
entrenched. Now looking ahead, this was
the key line that we pulled out. It said
that some participants did say it quote
likely is appropriate to keep the target
range unchanged for some time. As of
this morning, investors in Fed fund
futures were assigning a 17% chance that
we could see a cut in January. And Lisa,
as you were mentioning at the end of
last hour, there is a lot to keep our
eye on as we head into January and the
new year. You mentioned CPI, also the
employment report out on January 9th.
But of course, what is looming over all
of this, which is that we are expecting
President Trump to announce his pick to
lead the Federal Reserve as he himself
says that he already has a favorite.
>> Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall, thank you so
much. And I just learned that Matt
Miller is also wearing a kilt because he
is celebrating hugman uh which is the
Scottish New Year. That is what we
learned from Lizzie Burton over in
London. Thank you for that. Um I'm glad
to see that.
>> It's not true. [laughter]
>> It's not true. You're not wearing a
kilt. Okay. Well, you know, maybe next
year if they get another double digit
return, Matthew Miller will show up in a
kilt. Barbara Duran is not wearing a
kilt of BD8 Capital. She wrote, "The Fed
could be stingy on rate cuts unless
Labor [clears throat]
takes a big dive." Barbara joins us now
for more. Barbara, thank you so much for
being here. Really appreciate it. On
this uh New Year's Eve, a real question
about the Fed and how much they can cut
given the dual mandate that they have of
a labor market that they seem to be
prioritizing right now. Yeah, they
definitely are. Yeah, because the labor
uh numbers have been soft. You saw that
in the ADP number a few weeks ago and of
course jobs, but what we're not seeing
is any really follow-through in jobless
claims. They are still not signaling,
you know, any danger there. And that
obviously is a leading indicator, but I
think that's where the emphasis because
inflation seems to have stabilized. I
think somewhere around here 2.9 I think
it could creep up a little bit higher
because even though the tariff impact
has not as been as severe as everybody
expected including myself you know
there's still it's still feeding through
now that there seems to be some
stability in the outlook you know for
tariffs so I think you could see it inch
a little higher but you're certainly not
going to see it as it happened postco
and things were opening up so I think
they are right to focus on labor and
what that means and right now we know
what's happening in terms of uh lower
immigration um baby boomers retiring And
so, but it looks imbalanced. So, you
could see lower job creation, but that's
because the demand will be lower. So,
but that's the key thing. And the
economic data has been a little bit
behind and we know there's problems with
the recent CPI number. So, I think it
continues. The Fed is still going to be
data dependent, but I don't see them
cutting in the next uh month or so
because they need to see really if the
trend in labor is going to continue to
gradually go down or if it's going to be
much stronger.
>> What What do you expect there? Because
we've had incredible growth, right? um
4% essentially in Q3. We're expecting um
you know above trend growth in in Q4 as
well or at least at 3%. And uh it's not
like um the labor pool is getting any
bigger. We don't have any immigration to
speak of. Demographics are going the
wrong way. So do you expect unemployment
to rise in 2026?
>> It could go up a tad more, but no, I
don't see why it would go up. you know,
people are still spending and obviously
we know that's a major driver,
threequarters of the economy and
certainly the some of the um
expectations for holiday spending is
four to five percent. And some of the
recent data consumers are spending and I
think big part of that is still this 40
to 50 trillion in wealth trillion in
wealth that's been created since 2019
that's out there and people are still
employed. wages are, you know, are not
going up as fast, but they're still
there. And that 4.3% which was we know
was a percentage point higher for the
third quarter GDP is really interesting
because you know that means the 1.9%
that the Fed is estimating for next year
could be low and that obviously is a
question then where do you invest and
that could be more cyclical rotation you
know in financials should continue to be
strong industrial certain industrials
really tied to data center buildout and
and on reshoring all that sort of thing.
So that GDP number is very interesting
and I think that strength could continue
>> well and earnings continue
[clears throat] to look strong as well.
I mean forecasts are for doubledigit
earnings gains again in 2026. Do we
finally get the broadening out? Is it
you know a substantial broadening out of
the rest of the S&P rather than just
these mega cap tech stocks?
>> Yeah and I think that is that's the
question of the moment. I think part of
what we're seeing why it's been soft
this last few days. I mean we had the
market making new highs. So the classic
Santa rally which is the last five days
you know is doesn't seem to be happening
but I think that's because you know
there's a lot of tax laws selling people
trying to figure out where to rotate
into because I think the strength will
be higher and the estimates for next
year 12 to 15% in earnings doing bottoms
up you know measuring and so that bodess
very well we've been seeing this
quarterly increase so what I think it
does mean is this broadening out I think
you continue to have the so-called mag
seven be strong and you've seen only two
have outperformed this year but you'll
continue to see profit taking and then
moments where they continue and they
will move higher. These are, you know,
compounders, you know, I mean, you look
at Nvidia for instance, 26 times next
year's earnings and those earnings will
continue to come up. So, I think you
stay in the MAG7. Um, that's going to be
core and obviously given the the
percentage of their, you know, it's 30%
of the market cap of the S&P, 40 plus%
of profit. So, you stay there, but you
should see financials, industrials, I
don't think small cap perform continues
to perform. You know, I think that was a
trade and part of that's because
interest rates, you know, right now I
see maybe one more cut. The Fed
signaling too, but I don't I don't see
it. It's going to be very dependent.
>> So, we were speaking earlier with
Michael Pervvis about some of the
transactions that we've seen to end the
year, whether it's Nvidia going after
Grock, whether it's Nvidia's transaction
with an Israeli AI company this morning,
whether it's something that we saw with
Meta having to do with a Singapore-based
AI company. and he was saying this kind
of resembles 1999 2000 where they're
just having this sort of FOMO and the
seauite to try to get as much as they
possibly can. Sounds like you see it a
little differently. Is that right?
>> I do. I do. I mean there's there is
always the potential for overbuilding.
Everybody sees the same opportunity. We
know this happens in a capitalist
society. you know that always happens
but I I think it's it's we're far away
from the moment in 20 and 19 uh uh was
is not I think a good analogy because so
many of those companies did not have
earnings you know it was just like ah
you know invest in it was wild you know
it was a free-for-all and so here it's
very different I mean the companies the
hyperscalers etc they have huge cash
flow and it's only Oracle that is really
dipping deep into the debt side of
things the others are excuse me are
using their free cash flow so I think
it's very different so at some point.
Yes, it will end, but I don't I don't
think we have to worry about that this
year.
>> You were talking about diversification
and how it's not going to come from
small caps, how it's probably not going
to come from the other 493 necessarily.
Is it going to come from Europe? Is it
going to come from overseas? That's what
we've seen this year,
>> right? I mean, you've seen
outperformance in the emerging markets.
Um, certain emerging markets. Um,
certainly things seem to be stabilizing
with China in terms of the rhetoric
between us and them, which is a good
thing. You've also had with the dollar
down 10%. question is does it continue
to go down or is it stable here? And of
course that is tied to interest rates
and how much the the Fed will cut or not
cut. So I think you probably still have
an EM you know the emerging markets um
earnings were better that's more stable.
So I think you've got opportunities
there and certainly we know the European
defense buildout and fiscal spending is
not over in six months. So you probably
do have more upside. So diversification
yeah you can look abroad.
>> I have um a sports question and maybe
Lisa can weigh in too because she's got
kids in this age range. I was having a
discussion with people last night who
have teenagers that aren't playing
football and um I'll I'll get to why in
a second you know and and and and where
I live in Edgemont in Scarsdale there
are years where we can't feel the team
anymore just because parents don't want
to risk the brain injuries and I noticed
looking at your uh CV that you're on the
lacrosse association and and the field
hockey association.
>> I wonder if those sports are any safer.
Are those sports I mean I know they're
picking up massive amounts of
popularity. Yeah. Um do you think we're
going to see the the same trend in
football happen there or or is it
different?
>> These these are always interesting
questions. You know lacrosse uh there's
men's and women's are very different.
Women aren't allowed to hit each other.
Men can but they're not
>> allowed to but I imagine they still do.
>> Yeah.
>> I have a plate in this hand as a result
of that. But you know it does. And also
field hockey you've got mouthguards. got
this and that and there is real real
awareness and consciousness c certainly
in high school you know area but so
there's awareness but I don't think it
it rises to the level of football which
has such well doumented serious injuries
>> so maybe lacrosse and field hockey take
market share I mean
>> it would be nice no but I I think it's
two different things
>> field hockey PDA [laughter] capital
indeed and I will just say thank you so
much uh Matt you seen the new helmets
that they have and how kids won't wear
them because they look like bobbleheads
And so, you know, they're teenagers and
they want to look cool and wearing a big
bobblehead on their head, as much as it
might protect their brain in 10 years
doesn't work for them. So, yeah.
>> I mean, hopefully they do adopt them if
they really help. Um, hopefully kids get
over that and realize that's a sacrifice
they have to make to play football. But,
you know,
>> you know what? I'm with you though. With
teenager boys in particular, do I really
want them playing football?
>> I don't know. Right now, we can have
that discussion endlessly. as well as
his discussion about his jacket. Uh
let's get you an update right now on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Scottish morning with Bloomberg
[music] Brief uh with Lizzie Burton.
Lizzie, over to you. Well, I'm backing
seeing Matt Miller in a kilt. 2026 is
the year. But let's get to your top
stories. Russia and Ukraine striking
each other's Black Sea ports overnight,
damaging infrastructure, including an
oil refinery. Moscow and Keev have
repeatedly targeted each other's ports
in recent months, compounding challenges
for [music] shippers of various
commodities from grains all the way to
oil. Two people were hospitalized in
Russia and six were injured in [music]
Ukraine. Elsewhere, Euroar is resuming
service today after a power issue in the
Channel Tunnel disrupted operations
[music] yesterday. In a statement on its
website, Euroar said, "We plan to run
all of our services today. However, due
to knock-on impacts, there may still be
some delays and possible lastminute
cancellations. [music]
And if you're hoping to get a Trump
mobile phone, you're going to have to
wait [music] a little bit longer.
According to the Financial Times, the
phone company launched by the
president's family business won't be
available by the end of the year as
originally planned. The [music] company
telling the FT that shipments of the
$499 gold colored phone were delayed
[music] by the recent government
shutdown. And that should be my brief.
Lisa, thank you so much, Lizzie. Up
next, expanding the AI trade.
>> To provide a smoother road for investors
along [music] this AI revolution, you
need to build a diversified portfolio
across the entire ecosystem. We're in
batting practice of a double header.
Batting practic involves infrastructure.
>> Bloomberg's Michael Griffin joins us on
that. Coming up next, this [music] is
Bloomberg surveillance. Good morning.
[music]
We're seeing a bit of softness right now
into the final trading session of 2025
after three straight sessions of
declines taking some of the heat out of
a rally that really has been tremendous.
The third straight year of double digit
gains. [music] S&P futures lower by 210
of a percent. City close rally not
necessarily meaning all that much after
what we have seen. What was that 90%
gains over the past?
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean what we've seen in
23 24 and now 25 um rivals the '9s. We
haven't seen anything like that in this
[music] century.
>> Yeah. And a lot of people are expecting
double-digit returns for next year as
well, which would bring us back to a
late 1990s type of [music] trend.
Meanwhile, in the bond space, you've
seen yield curves steepening globally.
We do see a bit of a bid into yields
[music] more broadly this morning with
10-year yields lower by almost two basis
points. Similar move in the 30-year, but
notable that we started [music] the year
around 4.55% on the 10-year. We are now
at 4.1%. The 30-year yield has basically
remained rangebound in and around 4.8%.
[music] 8%. Meanwhile, we are looking at
big tech at a time when everyone is
saying the AI trade has really driven so
much of the gain, so much of the
productivity, so much of the GDP in the
United States. If you take a look for
example at Nvidia, which has led so much
of the gains, they have just skyrocketed
[music] this year up uh some 40% but not
as much as Google. This is actually
interesting. You have seen a shift to
some of the use cases of AI up 66%.
Microsoft falling behind at just under
16% under surveillance this morning
expanding [music] the AI trade
>> to provide a smoother road for investors
along this AI revolution. You need
[music] to build a diversified portfolio
across the entire ecosystem. Don't lean
so much into semiconductors and chips
and [music] software plays. Right now,
we're still in the infrastructure
buildout portion of this revolution.
We're in batting practice of a double
header. [music] Batting practice
involves infrastructure. The games
involve the actual spending and
deployment of AI. So I would shift more
time and attention to the data center
plays, data center construction,
electrical connectivity, and then bring
in the utility plays as well.
>> Here's the [music] latest. Investors
expanding the AI trade beyond big tech
with plays in power construction and
data storage as you just heard there.
Bloomberg's Matthew Griffin joins us now
for more. Matthew, thank you so much for
being here. Great to see you. So, how
are you seeing people shift at a time
when we already have seen a lot of money
go towards some of these picks and
trouble trades?
>> Well, Lisa, thanks so much for having
me. It's not so much that investors are
exiting the AI trades that they've
already made. I mean, Nvidia has had a
great year up about 40%. But it's more
that investors are hungry for new ways
to play the theme, especially as some of
these older trades get a little more
crowded. And so that's why you see
companies going into names like SanDisk,
that's data storage. They're actually
the best performer in the S&P 500 uh
this year. Their shares are up 570%.
So really nothing to sneeze at there.
Companies that build data centers and
the infrastructure that data centers
use. So uh Quant Services, Primorous
Services, those are some of the names
there. Generrack makes backup
generators. Even Bitcoin miners actually
getting some of the loves. Uh companies
like iron, like Bit Deer, they have all
this power that they use to mine
cryptocurrencies and now they're
deploying it to uh for power and
computing for data centers.
>> Not to be existential, but what are we
doing this for? I mean, if you build it,
will they come is sort of the
existential question here when we really
haven't seen the productivity gains yet
in the broader ecosystem of US
companies. Yes, this is absolutely one
of the risks for investors. So my
colleague Carmen Riniki had a great
story about this trend yesterday and
what one money manager told her is if
you want to understand the risks look at
the early days of COVID. You had
companies that were selling things, you
know, hand sanitizer, personal
protective gear, that's great when
there's huge demand, but if that dries
up, the downturn in demand can be swift.
So some of these companies are highly
valued. You look at GE Vernova, they're
a power equipment company. They've their
shares have doubled this year. They
trade at 50 times forward earnings. Not
a lot of room for error. I think the
other thing though, the reason investors
are bullish on picks and shovels is you
don't have to know exactly what the gold
is in the gold rush, you don't have to
know exactly who will see the
productivity gains, exactly what
consumers will end up using in AI. So
maybe there is a little more room for
error on the fundamentals in that sense.
>> Yeah. GE Vernova trades at 90 times
estimated earnings uh for next year. So,
uh massive valuation there. I wonder
about the you know um the hyperscalers
which I guess maybe the gold right
Nvidia uh Meta um we've been talking
about the the free cash flow with
Barbara. That's the difference between
now and the '9s, right? Because what you
don't want is a Cisco. um you don't want
a company that's spending all this money
to lay out fiber and then it's not used
properly or profitably for um five or
six years. Are these are these picks and
shovels players actually making money?
Do they have also the big free cash flow
numbers that an Nvidia and a meta have?
>> I think it there is a comparison to the
hyperscalers there which is that a lot
of these companies had businesses before
they were ever linked to AI. In fact,
pretty much everyone that I named had a
business. So, you know, there's a lot of
other construction that happens. There
are other companies that buy backup
generators there. You know, even the
Bitcoin miners, they had streams of
revenue from mining Bitcoin. An
interesting one that we've actually
talked about before is Caterpillar. So,
Caterpillar makes bulldozers and back
hose, right? Well, they also make power
turbines. Those are being used to power
data centers. Investors are very bullish
about that. But this is a huge company.
So even if some of the share gains are
coming from AI, there's a lot for these
companies to fall back on.
>> Yeah. CAT actually has 8 billion in free
cash flow and they're only trading at 31
times earnings. So uh it's really
fascinating to see companies like that,
even deer for example, get linked to the
AI trade because they make the sort of
earthmoving equipment that Elon Musk
needs to build his colossus, right? Do
you see more of that? Yes, I absolutely
think more companies are going to get in
on this trend. We actually saw an
announcement yesterday. There's a
company called FTA Aviation. They own,
maintain, and lease jet aircraft
engines, and they said yesterday they're
going to be converting some of their
engines to run power generators for data
centers. Their stock got a nice boost on
that. Um, and
again, this is not a company that you
would think of as an AI player, but
investors are looking for new ways to
play the theme.
>> Look at Ford last week. Ford Ford said
they're going to shift their car battery
making capacity to build um, you know,
essentially power walls for data
centers.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think every company
that has even a tangential relationship
to construction to electricity right now
has to be at least looking at whether
there's an AI play there.
>> Matthew Griffin, thank you so much for
being with us. Uh really interesting,
although it does kind of feel
reminiscent, Matt, of remember when
Overstock said that it was a blockchain
company and everyone thought, "Wow,
furniture on the blockchain and then
that didn't come to fruition." It feels
a little like it could go that route,
too. It feels a lot like 1999 frankly
and until you look at the actual
profitability numbers. Um it really does
uh mirror that time at the end of
the.com bust.
>> Yeah. So this will be the year that
maybe the proof will be in the pudding
or maybe we'll just keep kicking the can
down the road. Coming up, an in-depth
conversation with Bridgewwater founder
Ray Dallio on the top risks for 2026
with AI among them. Plus, Lizzie Burton
joins with your morning movers. Shares
of Nike jumping following a major stock
purchase by its chief executive officer.
Those shares up by [music] 2.6% in
pre-market trading. Otherwise, pretty
soft out there as people find little
reason to [music] get off the couch.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
Well, you didn't get the Santa Claus
rally. [music] That's the bad news. Good
news is you got double digit gains, more
than 20% gains on the NASDAQ, 17% gains
on the S&P. [music] I guess people
wanted even more. Nonetheless, we are
seeing a bit of a dip on the fourth
straight session to end out 2025. S&P
futures lower by a tenth of a percent.
NASDAQ down 2/10enth of a percent, the
Russell 2000 down by a tenth of a
percent as well. A real question about
the rotation trade and how much it
hinges on Fed rate cuts next [music]
year. If you take a look at twos, tens,
and 30s for the bulk of this year, you
have seen yield curves [music]
steepening. You have seen the front end
rally hard with 80 basis points of a
decline. On the long end, though, you
haven't seen any movement at all.
30-year yield still around that 4.8%
[music] level. This morning, the
reverse, you're seeing a little bit of
that curve flattening with less of a
rally at the front end [music] and more
of a rally at the long end. And if you
take a look at where the action really
has been over the past week or two, it
has been [music] in silver and gold.
Those shares have been or those uh
precious metals are lower today. They
have had a rip roaring year. The [music]
best year going back to 1979, silver up
some almost 150%. And this comes at a
time where the [music] CME Group is
saying, "Okay, maybe post more margin
because the volatility is getting pretty
intense." Two hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers,
Lizzie Burton. Lizzy,
>> hey Lisa, I want to start with the drama
of 2025, and that is the Warner,
Paramount, and Netflix takeover battle.
This is the news that Paramount's
[music] bid for Warner is set to be
rejected next week. You have had the
asurances from Larry Ellison that he's
going to guarantee personally the
financing on that deal, but Warner's
board apparently unmoved by those
promises because Paramount hasn't uped
[music] its offer. So, all three sliding
in the pre-market. Next up, we turn over
to Nike and the news that the CEO Elliot
Hill has bought a million dollars worth
of stock following in the footsteps
[music] of the Apple CEO Tim Cook. He
bought $3 million worth of stock in Nike
on Christmas Eve. So, those shares up
two and a half% in the pre-market. And
finally, we turn over to Vander
Pharmaceuticals. [music] They've had a
motion sickness drug approved by the
FDA. It's been a long road getting this
approval. Not quite [music] going to be
on the shelves in time for the holiday
season, but it should be there in the
coming months. So, that's up 21% [music]
in the pre-market. Lisa, back to you.
Thank you so much, Lizzie. And that
makes me feel really good. I always get
motion sickness in long car rides. You
don't?
>> No.
>> Okay. Well, at least I will be the one
celebrating a motion [music] sickness
drug. Maybe TMI. Meanwhile, let's shift
gears quickly. On our radar this
morning, millions of Americans facing
higher prices for their health insurance
in the new year as subsidies for the
Affordable Care Act expire tonight.
Congress failed to extend the expanded
tax credits earlier this month.
Meanwhile, Reuters reporting Nvidia is
approaching Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing to ramp up production of
its H200 artificial intelligence chips.
This as demand from Chinese tech
companies accelerates. Matt, this was a
question. If the US allowed Nvidia to
sell H200 chips, would China buy them?
And it seems like maybe the answer is
yes and in spades.
>> Yeah, I think it is a really fascinating
story because it does look like the
Chinese Communist Party has been trying
to convince its domestic producers not
to buy these chips. They've issued
various warnings um and regulations over
the last year. And yet the demand is
clearly still there. The sales are
happening as much as they are allowed to
by the US. It's also fascinating that um
you know we're worried about the
national security ramifications of
allowing China to have this technology,
but I guess if they pay us enough, we
don't care,
>> right? How much is it a national
security issue and how much is it a
commercial issue? And that's been sort
of the debate for a long time this year
when it comes to a lot of national
security issues and tech. It also speaks
to what we saw yesterday with the CCP
coming out and saying, "We're thinking
of maybe preventing you from creating
certain AI related technology unless 50%
or more is manufactured in China." There
was a caveat there asterisk. There are
certain areas where this could be
exempted if companies demand it. How
much are the companies pushing back
against some of these national security
uh provisions and saying we need those
we need those to get to step forward?
>> Yeah. Chinese Jensen Wong's telling
President Xi that um look this is not
only important for us in terms of
profitability but in terms of the best
interests of this country right the idea
um that China should use our technology
has been pushed by Howard Lutnik on this
show right because he says if they use
our technology if they get addicted to
our technology we're the ultimate
winners there and I guess they must see
it the same way in reverse
>> yeah a question of tech belt and road
and how much they want to and can
implement that meanwhile in the same
kind sphere. Elon Musk's XAI is planning
on expansion of its massive data center
complex in Memphis. The company has
purchased a third building in the area
that will bring its AI computing
capacity to almost 2 gawatt. Do you have
any color on this, Matt, whatsoever?
>> No, I mean just that 2 gawatt is a hell
of a lot of computing power, right?
Because we need about 9 gawatt to run um
New York City. So that just shows you
how much two is. And um I just love this
story because of uh Elon Musk's pay
packages and the targets that they've
set. Right? Tesla's worth $1.5 trillion
and he needs to get to $8 trillion. And
a lot of people are questioning how he
can do that without producing many more
cars. But I think the answer is if you
fold in X AI and you fold in SpaceX,
Tesla, all of a sudden the market share,
sorry, the market um value balloons and
then you could see an 8 billion market
cap sooner than you might have expected.
Then you get robots in everybody's home
folding their lines. And
>> then Elon Musk gets a trillion dollars.
>> Exactly. And then there we go. And
several gigawatts. I'm losing track of
what these uh metrics really even mean
at a certain point. Let's turn back to
markets. Bridgewater Associates founder
Ray Dalio sat down with Bloomberg to
share what he sees as the five five
biggest risks facing investors in the
new year. Take a listen.
>> I'm a a practical investor. [music] I've
done this for 50 years. But in order to
understand today, I had to understand
things that happened before my lifetime.
The big cycles, what causes breakdowns
in monetary system. So I studied the
last 500 years and there are five big
factors, [music]
three of which operate in a big cycle.
There is the debt cycle, the debt money
[music] cycle and I'll touch on that in
a minute. There is connected to the
money and debt cycle is the political
cycle within countries. the left and the
right. Gaps in wealth and and values
cause populism of the left and the
right, which means that there are
irreconcilable
differences. So, we have problems along
those lines. And number three, there's
the geopolitical cycle, the world order,
when rising powers challenge existing
powers and existing systems. Those three
are interrelated cycles. money, debt, um
the domestic economy and the uh
international economy. The uh the fourth
is through nature. Acts of nature,
droughts, floods and pandemics have been
a big factor. They have killed more
people than wars and they can play a
role. Certainly, it's playing a role.
And then always throughout history is
man's inventiveness particularly of new
technologies. and the inventiveness that
we're seeing of the new technologies
with AI particularly is clearly a force.
So now how does that play out? Um the
first force is that we are having too
much debt. Now this is not just the
United States. You're seeing this in
England. You're seeing this in France.
You're seeing this in China. You're
seeing that dynamic. So that they can't
increase the debt the rate way they um
did before. And then related to that is
the politics. When you have these large
wealth gap differences, um, who has the
money? And when there's the accumulation
of a lot of wealth that then isn't
taxed, there's a tendency to want to tax
that wealth. Um, and that creates
bubbles. In other words, when wealth is
very different from money. In order to
spend money, you have to sell wealth and
get money. And when there's a lot of
wealth that um needs to be sold. So
quite often interest rates play that
role. But you could see wealth taxes
play that same role meaning the need to
sell that and that creates a bubble. So
we have a debt bubble going on. We have
that other kind of a bubble going on in
the economy um and uh related to
politics. And then of course geopolitics
capital flows and trade flows
[clears throat] are different because we
have a world in conflict and in that
world in conflict no country could be
secure. Uh so that's why the United
States wants to build self-sufficiency
in these areas or China which is that
model where China would export to the
United States and earn money and then
invest in bonds is no longer a viable
path because the Chinese worry that they
won't get paid on their bonds like the
Russians don't get paid on the bonds. So
that dynamic is create is what is behind
now what's happening and it's becoming
more precarious as we go forward like if
we go into the 26 elections 2026
elections it's likely that the um
Democrats will take the house
significant um possibility if that
happens the political conflict will
continue to be more difficult and so on
and that's creating this risky
environment
Particularly also debts are maturing.
>> So you have to roll over your debt at a
higher interest rates. This confluence
of factors is making the environment
more risky as we're going ahead.
>> Out of the five forces that you had
mentioned, what do you think is the
biggest one that investors are not
paying enough attention to?
>> I think it is the debt service.
um particularly uh the government
position in uh the supply demand of of
that debt combined with the politics.
What's happening in all of these
governments is that they can't increase
their spending
>> because they can't increase their debt.
And at the same time, they have the
needs more military spending and so on.
and at the same time they can't cut
taxes. And so you're seeing a lot of
political turnover. In the UK they've
had four prime ministers in the last 5
years. Same has been true in France
because there's not the ability to
deliver on the economic promises that
they're making. So I think it's the
confl confluence of that economics
um that situation and the politics the
debt dynamics working with the politics
working then with this um uh technology
adding into it in in a bit of a
technology bubble.
>> So final question.
>> So that's that concerns me the most and
I would say particularly post 26. Does
that mean that you said recently that
15% allocation in gold and Bitcoin? Do
you still stand by that line?
>> I think that everybody should realize
that gold is a type of money. It's not
something to speculate in just as you
would hold cash,
>> but um it's other cash is a fiat money.
And when you have debt, then the
government needs to print money and make
money easier, which lowers the value of
that money. And so also to recognize
that gold is a diversifier when the
other parts of the portfolio do badly
because of some of the things we're
talking about. Gold will do better as a
diversifier. So it has the effect in
such times of raising the returns and
diversifying the portfolio. It should a
normal allocation would be between five
and 15% if you just went into a
portfolio optimizer. That was
Bridgewwater Associates founder Ray
Dallio looking at some of the big risks
and as you point out Matt, he does have
some pretty big risks when you talk
about civil unrest and things of that
nature, which is a reason why I do think
uh it's notable how many conversations
among politicians heading into the end
of the year have to do with regulating
AI and I'm talking about both sides of
the aisle. How much does that come back
as you see a sort of push back against
some of what we've heard from Washington
DC so far this year? Yeah, I I've
actually talked with Paul Tudtor Jones
about that this year and um he has
warned that we won't get any guard rails
on AI because we need to beat the
Chinese and other rivals with this
technology. Um neither side is going to
really be able to push through any
meaningful regulation and certainly this
administration isn't a huge fan of
regulation. But I think Dallio's um use
of the actual term civil war has been
really fascinating throughout this year.
And he's uh said something similar just
now in this interview. And he's said as
much uh lately that the left and the
right have irreconcilable differences.
And it's not just uh on social issues,
but also in terms of the rising
government debt, the deficits that are
resulting from the latest budget, and
the large wealth gaps. I mean, we have a
story on the terminal today about the
fact that the top 500 richest people in
the world have added another $2.2
trillion to their wealth. Well, the
poorest people in this country are not
adding to their wealth. In fact, they're
getting paid less and inflation is
taking more and more money out of their
wallets. So, um it is it is interesting
to look at those uh bigger picture, you
know, giant macro risks.
>> I think that we can reconcile some of
those differences and say that maybe
there should be a holiday period for
markets to be on hold from Christmas
through the new year. Just suggesting
it. I don't know. Do you think that you
could get behind that?
>> Are you still like Dr. Doom on this
show?
>> No, I'm not. I'm actually You're You
just went totally Dr. Doom and I'm
thinking, "All right, well, happy new
year. Have a good one." I mean,
honestly, no. I think that there are
plenty of reasons to be optimistic.
Always times to worry. You can look in
chatbt for that one. Anyway, let's move
on. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
bloom brief with Lizzie Burton. Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. President Xiinping says that
China is set to meet [music] its
economic targets for 2025 with growth
expected to reach about 5%. Addressing
the country's top political advisory
body on New Year's Eve, she said that
the economy has demonstrated resilience
despite challenges. His remarks were
bolstered by official data showing that
the first showing the first expansion in
factory activity [music] in 9 months.
Elsewhere, CO era subsidies that help
Americans pay for Obamacare health plans
are set to expire today. [music] It'll
result in more than 20 million Americans
paying higher premiums next month. A
handful of House Republicans are joining
Democrats in a maneuver that will put a
three-year extension of the subsidies to
a vote next month. And Nvidia is looking
for help from TSMC to ramp up production
of its H200 AI chip orders. According to
Reuters, Nvidia has [music] 700,000
H200s, but Chinese technology firms have
ordered more than 2 million chips
[music] for 2026. TSMC is expected to
start work on the chips in the second
quarter of the new year. And that should
be my brief, Lisa. Thank you so much,
Lizzy. Up next, Goliath is winning.
>> Three words sum up our view on [music]
US banks. Goliath is winning. Will big
banks do well in 2026? And I think it's
pretty clear that the answer is yes.
>> Chris McGrady of KBW joins next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> A bit of softness to close out 2025. At
least if this holds, it would be the
fourth straight session of losses. But
we are building back from some of the
losses before. Down a tenth of a percent
on the S&P. A bit of a rally into the
long end of the yield curve. 10-year
yields now 4.11%.
[music] A real question of who's going
to lead come 2026. And under
surveillance this morning, Goliath is
winning.
>> Three words sum up our view on US banks.
Goliath [music] is winning. Goliath is
winning like never before. The simple
question is, will big banks do well in
2026? And I [music] think it's pretty
clear that the answer is yes. Um they're
in a period of [music] deregulation. The
banks that are most regulated should get
benefits.
>> Here's the latest. Healthy capital
markets are the driving force behind the
strong US bank performance in 2025.
Chris McGrady of KBW sees that
continuing into the new year, writing,
we see further momentum and
outperformance in 2026 as multi-year
structural tailwinds for capital markets
and capital return further unfold. Chris
joins us now for more. Chris, great to
see you here. Good morning. I just want
to start with the Goliath question. Do
you think that Goliath is going to win
next year in the banking space?
>> Goliath is winning, right? And if you
take a step back, like at KBW, our our
theme is the the KBW triple crown, which
is scale, consistency, and deregulation.
All these forces we believe favor the
largest banks. You've seen it in the
stock performance. You've seen it in the
earnings revisions. And we see no reason
why that won't continue. How much do you
see a potential risk with credit
concerns that peaked up withricolor and
with other select defaults in 2025? Is
that something that will become even
more of a story in 2026?
>> Credits the number one thing that can
can ruin the momentum, right? We saw
pieces of that in October. We saw three
high-profile uh credits go south. Um
what was interesting, Lisa, is is the
performance of the banks when that
happened, right? The largest banks had
the exposure. JP Morgan had exposure,
but it was it was absorbed by the the
revenues and the momentum elsewhere in
the franchise and you take a company
like Zion's a midcap that had $50
million of exposure and they lost 10x in
their market cap in those couple weeks.
So, it just shows you that high degree
of sensitivity. But if you look at
credit spreads, if you look at credit
conditions, the banks have done an
exceptional job passing that test. I
actually just pulled up on my Bloomberg
terminal a year-to- date chart of JP
Morgan stock versus Blue Owl Capital,
because Blue Owl has become kind of the
poster child for these private credit
companies, rightly or wrongly, it's down
33% this year and JP Morgan is up 38%.
And you know, be because of the
discussion about cockroaches and the
back and forth between Jamie Diamond and
Mark Lip Schultz, it makes it all the
more interesting. Um, does that continue
or do you think we're mispricing private
credit here? It could be a little bit of
both. I think what we've seen from the
private credit perspective over the past
5 years, if you back up, is a lot of the
loan growth that normally would end up
on the bank's balance sheet has moved to
private credit. Now, part of that is
deregulation or excuse me, regulation
post financial crisis. So, I would say
following a crisis, there's a tendency
to overregulate and we're seeing some of
those rules get relaxed, but there's
definitely an arbitrage between the
banks and the non-banks. And I I I can
back out to five years because the comp
function does that and JP Morgan has
tripled in that time. So I mean these
big Wall Street banks, especially
heading into the Trump 2.0 period of
deregulation, just stand to benefit even
more, don't they?
>> They do. Uh the scale is winning, right?
Uh if you look at JP Morgan, we think JP
Morgan is a growth company. It's an
unpopular unconventional view given it's
the largest bank in the world. But JP
Morgan is growing topline revenues at a
high single-digit rate. It is growing
expenses slightly less. So there's
operating leverage in the model. But JP
Morgan and and the largest banks,
they've developed these models. And
what's what's interesting over the past
10 years is when I started my career 20
years ago, the largest banks traded at
the lowest multiples because it was too
too big to grow um or too large to grow.
Now it's the opposite. The largest banks
traded the highest multiples. And I
think what's interesting is they've
developed and produced the most
consistent returns and the most u the
mode around their businesses across all
the business.
>> This has happened at a time where
volatility is really low and you're
seeing this in the bond space. You're
seeing this even in equity implied
volatility. The Fed is still expanding
its balance sheet in order to counter
certain liquidity concerns heading into
year end. Is there a fear that if we do
get some sort of spike up in volatility
that could dramatically shift the
landscape?
>> It could. Um credit spreads are low. um
we've seen, you know, capital markets be
exceptionally healthy. But if credit
spreads were to go the other way in 2026
or we see some period of volatility,
that will understandably be an excuse to
probably sell banks, right? I think
capital markets has been a huge tailwind
and as long as the capital markets are
functioning and we see a healthy IPO
pipeline, we see a healthy M&A pipeline,
you know, that could disrupt it. But
again, we're in a pretty good spot. It
seems like the risk versus greed
paradigm is really uh shifting toward
the greed in terms of what companies get
rewarded for. Do you think that when
banks report earnings come January, they
will get rewarded for expanding their
balance sheets, they will get rewarded
for even increasing their pool of uh
credit reserves for charge offs as they
expand to try to get more profits?
>> I would say growth has been the missing
link for the space. Right? If you think
about the 200 plus banks that we cover
at KBW, uh loan growth has been um
tepid, right? It's been a source of
deleveraging. It's been private the the
intermediation of private credit. As we
see um you know 2026 guides be unveiled.
I think we will see decent guides. I
think we will see conservative guides
with room for upside. And it's going to
be upside from margin expansion, capital
markets momentum, and deregulation.
>> Yeah. Well, Chris McGrady of KVW, thank
you so much for being with us and have a
wonderful new year. Great to see you in
person. A real question of whether the
US can outperform Europe as well because
European banks have really done uh
absolutely tremendously so far this
year, Matt.
>> Yeah, far better. I mean, I was just
looking at price to book uh and Deutsche
Bank is more than one. You know, I spent
six years in Germany when it was like
0.3 and we've seen uh in Madrid the
banks outperform to the tune of 50% gain
for the IBEX. So, it's pretty amazing to
watch.
>> Yeah, the expansion of credit there
continues to build. Although the IBEX in
Spain has done absolutely tremendously.
I think it's been their best year since
1993 when you take a look at the returns
there. So Spain, there's something in
the Spanish water. I think you're going
to be happy.
>> If you're a dollar investor, it's even
better.
>> Exactly. Yeah. Well, you know, maybe we
can all get some hamun coming up in the
next hour. Margie Patel of Allspring
Global Investments, Becky Blaine of the
Point Guy, Claudia S of New Century
Adviserss as we take you [music] toward
the last economic indicator of 2025, the
jobless claims that come out at 8:30
Eastern, and Witty Caesar of credit
sites where we could talk all about the
credit profile, particularly how it's
transitioning with some of the AI
influence. From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning,
>> [music]
>> You kind of see shades of this K-shaped
economy, K-shaped market. Instead of any
sort of dramatic surge that could
reignite inflation pressures, we will
see hiring activity slowly start to pick
up.
>> If employment keeps weakening, if
inflation kind of stays somewhat cool,
it's hard to imagine that the Fed
doesn't cut more.
>> What matters is how the interplay of the
[music] risks and the tailwinds are
going to interplay in 2026.
>> 2026 is really about adaptability. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
[music] Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. On this New Year's Eve,
stocks on track for a fourth straight
day of [music] losses with traders
lacking a reason to shift around their
equity holdings after a pretty big year.
Uh some big moves though still out there
particularly in precious metals with
[music] escalating volatility prompting
CME Group to hike margins for the second
time [music] in a week and in just about
a half an hour time getting the final
economic release of 2025. Jobless claims
due out in a half an hour with Fed
officials signaling two more rate cuts
to come in 2026. Matt Miller alongside
me [music] right now as we do see
fireworks going off in Sydney, Australia
because it is a new year already. It
already is 2026. [music]
First we got Auckland, now New Zeal New
Zealand, now we've got Sydney. [music]
It already is the new year, Matt.
>> Yeah, we'll be rolling uh fireworks
around. Um the the world this uh this
morning, I'm going to see uh Tokyo and
Seoul at 10:00 New York time. Um and
it's been a pretty good year for stocks
around the world, too. globally.
Remember, many of these markets have
outperformed the US and we've done very
well with a 17% gain on the S&P 500. Uh
if you compound the gains over the last
three years, actually 80% for uh 23, 24,
and 25. So, it's been an amazing run and
added a ton to global wealth.
>> Yeah. Although some people have [music]
pointed out that you've seen even bigger
gains in the likes of Germany with the
biggest year going back to 2019 led by
[music] defensive stocks as well as uh
some of the other shares of the likes of
Deutsche Bank. You also have seen
[music] Spain deliver its best
performance since I believe 1993. Other
superlatives for the year. The dollar on
the flip side of some of that equity
outperformance internationally has
[music] been weakening at the fastest
pace going back to 2017. Watching that
space closely. It's also been the
biggest year for gold and silver going
back to 1979. [music]
This is setting up 2026 which are we are
already uh we are already entering in
the down under. Does this continue in
terms of US exceptionalism being
challenged [music] by the international
landscape?
>> You know I I ask that question of guests
on my show all the time and the answer
is inevitably yes. Um many investors
think that overseas especially emve
investment is going to pay off better
[music] than US investment. What do you
hear on what do you hear here on
surveillance?
>> I think it's a mly picture. Some people
say that that is the case [music] and
that you do see diversification. Other
people saying that that is a trade that
depends on the waning of the AI trade.
And as long as you get a waning of the
AI trade, the rest of the world should
benefit if you do get that broadening
out. That is one of the biggest
questions. Also a big question with oil
at [music] the worst year going back to
2020. Do we see a continuation of that?
Right now we are seeing stocks just
coming off. Bond yields uh really
getting bid this morning. [music] 4.11
on the tenure. Coming up this hour,
Marky Patel of Allspring Global
Investments with stocks on track for a
[music] 4-day losing streak to end the
year. Becky Blaine of the Points Guy
expecting a more stable airline
environment in 2026. And Claudia S of
New Century Advisers breaking down the
latest and last jobs data of the year.
Before we begin this hour, stocks just
edging lower uh with Margie Patel of All
Springs Global Investments writing, "We
do not expect the stock market to
broaden out materially in 2026. We think
the strong sectors will continue to have
high growth." Margie joins us now. And
Margie, thank you so much for being with
us. You really are answering the
question that Matt was just asking,
which is how much do you see this
outperformance of the rest of the world
of the rest of the 493 really taking
hold next year? Mhm. Well, I think for
the rest of the world, it's really sort
of a catchup after a long period of
underperformance. And I think that the
US still has some of the best
fundamentals of any country in the
world. Uh and we have good momentum uh
really this year. We saw it in the third
quarter. That should continue in the
fourth and well into next year with the
uh the tax treatment uh lower
withholding, higher refunds, and the
very favorable capital expenditure
treatment in the new tax bill. So we
think that the US is going to be one of
the better performing sectors uh next
year in in the world really
>> and it does hinge uh in your view on AI
remaining the dominant trade. How much
is this on a currency adjusted basis
versus overall uh in absolute terms?
>> Well, I think the the artificial
intelligence trade is going to continue
but really over the last few months
we've already seen some erosion in the
price earnings ratios of some of the
leading companies in AI. So the market
is already making an adjustment uh if
we're looking at some moderation from
the extremely high growth which is
probably likely but still that says to
me that's going to be one of the sectors
that have well above average growth when
you look at the whole economy. So we
still think that's a great sector.
>> What kind of broadening out do we get in
earnings Margie? because we have seen
the MAG 7 earnings though still um you
know massive double double digit gains
slow down and the rest of the S&P as Lee
says the S&P 493 uh starting to catch up
to some extent but it hasn't really been
substantial. Does that change in 2026?
>> No, I don't think so. I think the same
sectors that have been strong for this
year and a couple years before are going
to continue to be strong. uh the other
sectors uh that I think particularly for
consumers may be rather disappointing.
So we still think it'll be technology,
industrials uh relating to the
electrical grid and uh those will be the
sectors and aerospace defense will
continue to be the strong sectors and
really outperform those other sectors.
>> We've seen you know yearto date all of
the gicks sectors on the S&P 500 are up
but uh real estate has barely budged. I
wonder if that changes with interest
rates coming down. Consumer staples is
the second worst performer. And energy,
oddly enough, is the third worst
performer. I guess because of oil,
right? But we're going to need so much
energy to power these colossus data
centers. Um why doesn't it why doesn't
it pay off?
>> Well, I think really when you look at
the at the data centers and the growth
in power that we need in this country
and other countries really is going to
come from the gas side. So we think that
gas will continue to be in strong demand
and really uh detach from the price of
oil and uh if when you actually look at
oil although there seems to be a glut
today if you look down the road a year
or two uh it may look like that the
countries producing oil have really been
underinvesting. So we may have not today
not tomorrow a year from now have a big
surprise to say oh we really need to
invest more in oil. But we think the
case for gas, especially in the US, the
shale producers uh feeding into the
electrical grid and the need for more
power. It's really the only realistic
source is going to make that sector very
strong and really detach from what
happens to the price of oil.
>> How much Margate does this really lean
into the whole real world economy, the
old world economy uh being dominant?
We've seen that to some degree with the
metal space so far this year. Do you
expect that to continue next year?
>> Yes, I think so. And and I think the US
is going to continue to be uh one of the
strongest economies uh particularly
because the fundamentals are really on
our side. Um when you look at the
emerging markets, a lot of them have had
a big uh comeback, but fundamentally
their economies don't have what we need
to really see the sort of sustainable
growth. In the US, it looks like we're
on track to say two or maybe 3% next
year, which would really put us near the
high end of the range of sustainable
growth around the world. I know that the
back in the day Margie you and I used to
talk all the time about high yield bonds
and investment grade bonds and how fixed
income fit into a portfolio.
Increasingly you've talked about how
equities have been a better proposition
for a riskon move and frankly for
returns than bonds. Do you think that
that's going to shift come 2026?
>> Uh no I think the bond market is a is a
place of very small risk and very
moderate returns. So you'll get
particularly in high yield a little bit
extra yield. Maybe two percentage points
maybe three percentage points more than
the treasury yield. So say five and a
half to six and 3/4 something like that.
But you really can't look for much
beyond that. Uh if you look at the high
yield market a lot of the poor quality
issues have been siphoned off gone into
the low market. So the US public high
yield market has a default rate only of
about 2%. So it's actually uh quite uh
quite safe on a relative basis. and the
defaults have been more on the private
credit side which are more than twice
that amount and we think that'll
continue and uh as I said there's no
room for capital appreciation because
most bonds in the high yield universe
are trading above their face value so we
can't have the oldfashioned capital
appreciation that we would talk about in
in years past it just isn't the math
just isn't there
>> Margie I'm just an equity simpleton so
um this is a little bit too much for me
to understand why do we have credit
metrics um uh getting better and better.
Torson Slock put out a note about it
today. And defaults falling at the same
time as bankruptcies hit the highest
level since just after the great
financial crisis. How does that work
out?
>> Well, because the public high yield
market, [clears throat] number one, they
have not gotten the poor quality issues
they may have in other years because
[clears throat] those have been siphoned
off into the private credit market. So,
you just don't have those very
vulnerable names. And secondly, during
that period of zero interest rates, uh
many high yield companies took advantage
of that to restructure their balance
sheet, to pay off their bank lines, to
issue new debt at very very low coupon
rates, uh pre-reund issues that might be
callable or coming due in a couple
years. So actually the high yield bond
market as a whole has never had such a
strong balance sheet overall. And
secondly, the uh the supply is really
pretty modest compared to the insatiable
demand for higher yielding securities.
So we think the high yield market is a
is a little I would say an island of
tranquility, but it really looks pretty
good. The only criticism is you aren't
going to get those types of equity-like
returns that we've seen in other
markets, especially if the Fed is very
much on even keel uh relative stability.
It'd be different case if the Fed were
going to slam on the brakes, jack up
interest rates, but that doesn't look
like that's on the horizon at all. So,
we think the high yield market uh for
what it is is a modest yield, modest
risk, and uh some investors like that,
and that's so for that it's a good
sector. What does this mean for um
private credit, Margie, as we go into
2026 and I see all of these non-bank
lenders and uh Blue Owl, Apollo, KKR,
Blackstone um underwater for 2025. They
haven't performed for equity investors.
Mhm.
>> Well, and that reflects the the fact
that many [clears throat] many of
transactions that were done were were in
the poor quality companies that really
don't have the um the ability to improve
their balance sheet to raise their their
growth and it was really just sort of a
play on spreads of the cost of money
versus what they get. And we think
that'll continue and actually that's a
market that is now larger than the US
high yield market. It's more than
doubled in the last five years. So, it's
really a case of uh that's where all the
marginal dollars have flowed to and so
that will be where the the marginal risk
will be. And I think that as we've seen
when there are bankruptcies or blowups
in that market, it really hasn't washed
over into the bank sector, hasn't washed
over into the high yield market with
spreads widening out because the market
has distinguished those companies that
are under pressure um got way too much
money from the high yield market where
the it's more of a uh because of the
better balance sheets and the credit
outlook and moderate use of funds. When
you look at high yield uh bonds, the
purpose of why they're borrowing money
uh more than more than half maybe even
close to threearters of the last few
years have been to refinance other debt.
So they aren't going crazy with paying
themselves big dividends or to make
acquisitions that will turn out to be
too risky. So that's really that says
it's a very attractive sector looking at
the fundamentals really.
>> Margie Patel of Allspring Global
Investments, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us. Have a
wonderful new year. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomer brief with
Lizzie Burton. Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. Tatiana Schllober, the
granddaughter of former President John
F. Kennedy, has died at the age of 35.
She had disclosed and detailed her
battle with acute myoid leukemia, a
cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
Schlosberg was an enterprising
journalist who wrote for the Metro and
Science Desks of the New York Times
before transitioning into freelance
writing. Elsewhere, Warner Brothers
Discovery is planning to reject a
takeover bid from Paramount [music]
after the company amended the terms of
its offer. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Warner Brothers board
will meet next week to make a final
decision. The board is concerned that
Paramount has yet to increase its offer,
which was earlier rejected as [music]
inferior to one from Netflix. and
Michael Bur, the money manager, who was
of course made famous by the big short,
denying being short Tesla shares despite
calling [music] the company ridiculously
overvalued earlier this month. Murray's
comments come after Tesla took the
unusual step of publishing a series of
sales estimates indicating [music] the
outlook for its vehicle deliveries may
be lower than many investors were
expecting. And that should be more
brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Lizzie. All right,
Matt, you're a car expert. [music] So,
what do you think of the Tesla? Do you
kind of get into the electric if they
had an electric truck or an electric
motorcycle?
>> I, you [clears throat] know, I
increasingly hear positive reviews about
the Cybert truck. I have not driven one
myself and I think they're horrendously
ugly, but I applaud the company for
taking that kind of uh brave step to
doing something different. And so I
think it's pretty cool.
>> Yeah. Although I have seen people with
Cyber Trucks not allowed into passing
[music] lanes because people are not
very happy with the Cybert truck. I've
seen that in a variety of places.
[music] Have you ever seen that?
>> No. No. Well, in in general, US drivers
don't allow anybody into the left lane.
They they get in the left lane and drive
very slowly.
>> People tend to be tend [music] to be a
little bit less than uh polite there. Up
next, the morning calls. Plus, Becky
Blaine of the point guy expecting less
[music] turbulence for the airline
industry in 2026. That's coming up next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Heat. Heat.
[music]
>> [music]
>> When you think about some of the
dynamics that we're seeing [music] in
terms of supply, uh we have immigration
that's falling. We have retirements that
we think continue to accelerate. Um at
[music] the same time, your demand for
labor while slowing um still hanging in
there. So what that means is you're
going to have a situation where the need
for workers is still there. Um it's just
showing up as replacement demand. So
payrolls aren't going to look great by
any means, but [music] we are going to
expect an environment where the
unemployment rate remains low.
>> That was Michael Reid of RBC speaking
earlier as we do [music] wait to get
that jobless claims number at 8:30
Eastern in about 12 minutes time. Right
now in markets you are seeing just a
[music] touch of softness uh in the S&P
futures down by about a tenth of a
percent. Euro dollar stuck there around
11753. [music]
10-year yields uh now higher which is
sort of interesting given the fact that
they were lower earlier in the session.
They are selling off uh 4.13%
rounded off. Remember that they started
the year at 4.55% [music] and crude
firming up after the worst year going
back to the height of the pandemic. Time
now for the morning calls. First up,
Citizens raising its price target on
Alphabet to $385 from 340 [music]
while maintaining an outperform rating
on the shares. The firm expecting Google
to accelerate [music] search revenue in
the fourth quarter, down about a quarter
of a percent in pre-market trading on
Alphabet shares. Next up, BTIG raising
its price target [music] on TKO TKO
Group from $235 to $250 and keeping a
buy rating on the shares. The firm
seeing additional upside in TK TKO
sports and live entertainment [music]
businesses in 2026. Can you say TK TKO?
>> TKO TKO knockout TKO. I'll try to get it
again. It's sort of, you know, punch
out, right? Isn't that what it is?
>> Technical knockout.
>> Okay. Thank you. Technical knockout.
I'll just call it technical knockout
company. And finally, Jeff raising its
price target on Vanda Pharmaceuticals to
$7.50 from [music] $5 while maintaining
its hold rating on the shares. The move
coming after the FDA approval. [music]
Vanda's new motion sickness drug. Those
shares up almost 20% in pre-market
[music] trading. Turning now to travel.
Winter storms testing the US airlines as
holiday travel wraps up a volatile year
for the industry. Becky Blaine, senior
editor at The Points Guy, joins us now.
Becky, it feels like this happens every
year. Is this year any worse in reality
with storms and cancellations?
No, this year hasn't been any worse than
previous years. When we look at some of
the travel hiccups and headaches that
we've experienced across the US, you've
got those summer thunderstorms you can
always count on. You've got winter
weather. And what matters though is the
resiliency of the traveler and if
they're willing to get back out there
again.
>> Are there any airlines that do better
that outperform in bad weather? Um,
historically
>> right now it looks like Delta has been
kind of the leader in on time
performance and reliability and they
have a really good outlook going into
2026 as well and um, every year we put
out our best airlines report at the
points.com and so you can always read
how those are ranked as well.
>> So is Delta typically um, one of the
best? I mean, every airline is is pretty
bad. Um, you know, because they just try
and pack for profitability reasons,
obviously, as many people as they can
into a tiny little tube and then, um,
you know, most of the seats aren't lie
flat even if you
>> joyful today.
>> Even if you go to Seattle um, from New
York. Uh, are there any though that are
better than the rest? Is Delta one of
those that outperforms in terms of
customer satisfaction regularly?
Delta does and I think United is up
there as well. One of American's big
goals for 2026 is to work on its
customer service and um increase its
profitability there with on-time
performance as well. And so what we're
seeing though with a lot of these
carriers across the you know the big
three US carriers is they're they're
increasing their premium product
offering. There's been a demand for it
from the US travel market especially
when you look at those outbound
international flights. That's where
demand is strongest right now. We've
seen inbound travel, you know, drop off
this year due to a variety of reasons
including government shutdown,
immigration policy. And so that outbound
though remains strong and the airlines
are really counting on that going into
2026 and increasing that um product.
When you look at some of the I was just
looking at um airline prices the other
day to go to Europe in two weeks and I
saw a premium economy seat for $5,300,
but you could fly first class for
$3,000. And so that gives you just a
little bit of an indication of what the
US market is demanding. They want that
better than economy. Maybe not willing
to pay first class price, but sometimes
you'll find a deal like that because
premium economy is in such demand right
now.
>> Matt, when was the last time you went on
vacation? I'm just curious. I mean,
you're just, you know, yelling at a
cloud this morning.
>> No, because I'm 6'3, right? And unless I
pay for a business or first class seat,
it's just an awful experience. I mean,
there's no attempt by airlines to make
it any better for Americansized people.
Um,
>> okay.
>> And you know, that's because they they
need to please obviously shareholders
and make as much money as possible,
which is fine. If you're an investor, I
get it. But if you're a customer, it's
not a great experience.
>> It's uh also though about traveling to
places where you can do fun things like
ski, like be on a beach. And I am
wondering, Becky, from your standpoint,
whether you are seeing better
incentives, the idea of miles or other
points that people can get from airlines
from their credit cards, are those still
carrying as much heft or are you seeing
a real inflation in some of those areas?
>> We've seen some um program devaluations
over this last few years, but you have
to remain nimble. And one of our best
pieces of advice at the points guy is to
leverage points and miles in a program
that you know you're going to earn and
use the most. I'm a big fan myself of
transferable rewards. So I might double
down on American Express membership
rewards or Chase Ultimate Rewards
points. Put my spending on those cards
and then I take those points and
transfer them to the airline. So to
Matt's point, you know, if you want to
fly in a premium seat, like I've flown
long haul overseas to Europe from the
West Coast for 50,000 mi in a lie flat
seat on Air France. Now those seats run
about 60,000 miles one way, but still
those deals are out there. Matt, we're
going to sign you up for our daily
newsletter.
>> Those are few and far between. I mean,
[laughter] come on. That's very
unrealistic.
You could fly in a lie flat seat from
New York to London on Virgin Atlantic
starting at 6,000 points. Well, economy
is 6,000. You could fly upper class for
a little bit more than that. We're
talking like maybe 24,000 miles or
points there depending on what program
you're transferring from. So, you just
have to know where to look and how to
look and who the transfer partners are
from the different credit cards. And
usually like a onetoone transfer direct
into the airline might not be the best
use of your miles or your points. I
might look at American Airlines and I'm
an elite traveler with American
Airlines. I have been for many years. I
look at some of their redemptions and
they want 400,000 miles for a seat that
I can transfer and book through a
different program and maybe pay 60,000
miles of points for
>> Becky Blaine of the Points Guy. I look
forward to you making Matt a happier guy
with the newsletter that he receives and
uh comes up with some deals so that you
could actually travel without raising
your fist.
>> Um, you know, dress codes would be
great. an airline wouldn't state, you
know, because what's the deal with
sweatpants and Crocs?
>> It's comfortable and you have to take
your shoes off. I guess not anymore. But
if you have to take your shoes off,
you're you're going to ban sweatpants.
What you think everybody should dress in
a suit?
>> I I think, you know, you've got to dress
for the occasion. Especially if you're
going, you know, for you, right? If
you're going to go skiing in St. Maritz
or whatever, then you should wear a coat
and tie.
>> A coat and tie. I should wear a ski
outfit or I should wear your jacket.
I'll wear your jacket next time I fly to
go skiing. Coming up, less of that. The
more of this, the latest jobless claims
data set to cross with the last economic
indicator of 2025. Claudia Sam of New
Century Advisers with us to break down
the numbers. [music] This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
Right now, about an hour away from the
open and we do see a soggy start to the
day. the fourth potential straight day
of losses [music] to end 2025. Right
now, what you do see uh although we are
clawing back from some of the earlier
declines down about a tenth of a percent
on the S&P when you take a look at the
bond space 210 and 30s, a real question
about whether the Fed has the space to
cut rates and what this means on the
long end. A bit of a sell-off as we wait
for the latest jobless claims which we
are just getting now and they come in
below expectation. 99,000 versus the
expected 218,000
uh unemployment claims. They also was a
slight revision up basically flat on the
prior week, 215,000
from the previously stated 214.
Continuing claims, people have been
watching as a sign of how much people
who are unemployed can actually get
work. It does look like the continuing
claims came down to 1.86 86 million,
down from 1.9 the previous week. So, we
do see declines and Matt, this really
does speak to the ongoing quiet in the
labor market that things don't seem to
be falling off a cliff despite some of
the concerns that have been out there.
>> Yeah, I um I think it's fascinating. you
know, you get down below 200,000 and
that has only happened a few times in
the last four years. But we have been
stuck in this range with initial jobless
claims for well since um the end of
2021. We have been stuck between 200 and
250,000. Edimman once told me it was the
most reliable piece of economic data
that comes out on the Bloomberg
terminal. Um but I don't know what it
means when it stays the same number
every single week. Right.
>> You're not alone. And I think that's the
reason why you aren't seeing a massive
move. Although the 2-year yield is
popping higher up some one basis point
on the back of this data. The
unemployment claims definitely something
that has remained fairly stagnant.
Although the continuing claims has
caught some people's attention because
that had been ticking up. So a good sign
that we have seen that come in. Claudia
S of New Century Advisory uh joins us
now to give us some insight. Claudia,
thank you so much for being with us and
uh happy new year. What do you make of
this Matt's point that we've seen
unemployment claims basically at the
same place for almost a year?
>> Right. So, you know, as you said, we are
not seeing signs of deterioration in the
labor market. Like the layoffs have not
picked up in a way that that was the
downside risk that the Fed has been very
acute to and we haven't seen that. So,
so we're not seeing the bad news story.
Frankly, we still need to see some good
news in the labor market. So, the claims
don't get at the the piece that's really
been sticky, and that's that the hiring
rate has been quite low. So, yes, good
news on the continuing claims for this
week, but they are still quite elevated.
Uh, and so we need we need a little bit
more of the good news, but you know, the
fact that the layoffs have not shown up
despite, you know, a lot of layoff
announcements, like we're not seeing
them in terms of actual layoffs, and
that's good news.
>> Claudia, do you take anything from the
idea that continuing claims came in to
some of the lowest levels that we've
seen going back about a month, not
significant, and they are elevated as
you've said, but does that indicate that
people are actually finding work?
>> It's possible. I you know these are
while the claims data are very timely I
mean we get a quick read uh we have to
be careful around the turn of the year
there it's just really tricky with the
holidays and you know just reading these
data is much harder at the turn of the
year than say the middle of the year uh
but but it is it is potentially a good
sign and what we're looking for are
signs of more stability in the labor
market signs that those the hiring rates
start to pick off a pick up off their
very low levels. So, this is
encouraging, but this doesn't make the
case yet, right? We need to see it in
the hiring data. Claudia, what uh what
does the labor market look like with the
stop in immigration, no new people
coming to the US and the demographics um
fewer and fewer people having babies or
people having fewer uh babies. It would
seem to me that if you have the economy
growing and we do and corporate revenue
and profits growing uh as we do that,
you know, lack of supply in the labor
pool would mean more demand. But it
doesn't it doesn't look like that as as
you as you point out,
>> right? Well, you know, there there are
all kinds of timing issues, right? It is
quite unusual. We saw, you know, in the
third quarter GDP really, you know,
moved up higher and so did the
unemployment rate, right, in in a much
less dramatic fashion, but it is moving
higher. And so, you know, you have the
ingredients for the good news story of
the labor market going into 2026.
Consumers are still out there spending.
you've still got the business
investment. You know, companies will
need as they expand to draw on their
labor force and and we should see and I
think this is the optimism that you can
kind of see in the minutes from the
Fed's December meeting. There's an
outlook there that these pieces should
come together and we should have hiring
pick up. It doesn't necessarily need to
pick up to levels that we saw, you know,
two three years ago when immigration was
was much stronger, but we we are at low
levels that we have seen wage growth
slow some. We've seen the unemployment
rate tick up. That is a sign of of the
demand for workers is just lagging
behind the supply. Um Diane Swank
pointed out a couple of uh months ago
that cutting um rates, the Fed lowering
rates isn't going to help uh consumers
in the lower quintile, you know, because
subprime rates don't come down with the
front end of of the curve. But I wonder
if it does help the labor market. You
know, it we've lost I think 70,000
manufacturing jobs this year. We've got
a ton of incentives in the one big
beautiful bill to I guess bring those
back and tariffs are supposed to do
that, too. If those things don't work,
does cutting rates help to bring back
manufacturing jobs?
>> Well, cutting rates is supportive of
both households and businesses in in
expansion. I mean, and particularly say
smaller businesses that, you know, the
interest rates that they borrow with,
that's a key, you know, calculus in
their decision to expand and as they
expand, they can bring on more workers.
So, you know, I don't, you know, we
shouldn't have the view that the Fed has
the magic wand here on the economy and
it's going to on its own revive the
labor market, but the Fed pulling
restriction out of the economy, that
does it helps. It moves in the right
direction and again, it's a piece of the
puzzle. There's also more fiscal support
coming early in the year. And it does
appear that uncertainty just broadly
about policy and maybe some of
technological change has weighed on
labor market this year. And as that
dissipates, that's also another
ingredient to kind of get hiring going
again.
>> Uncertainty has also been pretty strong
because we haven't known how much we can
[clears throat] trust the data or
whether we're going to even get the
data. And even in this latest uh batch
of numbers, one terminal user points out
that seasonal adjustment, if you strip
that out, you actually see initial
jobless claims that are higher than the
previous uh week. So what do you make of
these types of seasonal adjustments of
these types of uh calculations that have
raised more questions than given
answers?
>> Right. Well, these issues with seasonal
adjustment, these are the the mainstay
of trying to read macroeconomic data,
right? Like as I said around the turn of
the year, claims data are tough from
Thanksgiving into early in the year.
It's just that that's just a hard uh
hard read. And so you do a lot of
averaging and kind of look at the basic
trend and the basic trend looks pretty
good, right? So don't make too much out
of one week. But yes, these are our
regular issues. Unfortunately, we're
also dealing with, you know, the backlog
of the government shutdown and data
collection having been very disrupted.
And even as we're getting data and the
claims data, this is not apply to them,
but say like the CPI or the labor market
data, you know, they there's a the
shutdown casts a long shadow. Like we
have distorted data in a way that we
don't typically have distortions. We
don't typically lose a month of of data
and then try and pick up the pieces
afterwards. So, it does make it more
complicated, but you know, thankfully
there's a lot of information out there.
You just kind of, you know, pull it all
in and get a sense of what's going on.
And really, the the tenor of the data in
in general is is pretty pretty good. I
mean, solid there. Like I said, we still
need labor market to pick up, but but
the the ingredients are there. When I
feel want to feel good, I walk down the
street and I see all these people going
to stores and being together and going
to work. And when I want to feel bad, I
read the news and I read all these
stories about how computers are coming
for our jobs and how a lot of places are
seeing opportunities to replace human
labor with algorithmic uh algorithmic
programs. I'm just wondering based on
the data that you've been looking at,
how much credence is there behind this
sort of replacement concept of AI?
Well, I think looking at surveys,
industry level data, the a when we think
about the labor market being somewhat
slow right now, I don't think that AI
really can, you know, you can point to
that as a key driver broadly. There are
some industries in tech uh increasingly
in finance where you see more adoption
and there probably are cost savings
happening with uh with employers. I
think you know it does fit into this
piece of the broader uncertainty, right?
like do you need to hire, do you need
these workers? That's much harder to to
parse out of the data because there's a
lot of different sources of uncertainty
right now that businesses have. Um, but
in terms of, you know, the adoption
really holding back the labor market, I
think it's hard to point to a broad
story, but it is certainly something
something to watch. But we should also
remember that the new technology also
enables new jobs and new uses of
technology. So, it's not just about
saving labor, it's also about making
labor more productive. And that that can
be a real good news story over the long
haul.
>> Claudia, I love when you're on because I
learned so much from you and because of
your notable achievements in in
economics, but also because you went to
Dennis and I spent uh a year there. My
dad went to Dennis, my mom went to
Dennis, I grew up in Granville. Um what
do you think of the value of a college
education for the average American these
days? because so many um not just kids
but adults are having trouble uh meeting
repayment requirements well into their
40s and it doesn't look like recent
graduates are getting uh a huge
advantage in the jobs market
>> right well technical skills and training
are I mean they're always important for
getting ahead they do pay off I have a a
very ecumenical view I had an excellent
education at Dennis University liberal
arts college but that's not for
everybody I mean my daughter is in
engineering school at Illinois. She's,
you know, different technical training
and I think, you know, in the trades and
there's there there are lots of ways to
gain skills and we certainly don't want
to push every child through a college
education, particularly with the cost of
it, but it doesn't, you know, I I still
think, you know, and the data bear this
out like the education and the skills,
they they do pay off.
>> Claudia S of New Centry Adviserss,
wonderful to see you. Happy New Year.
Thank you so much. See you in 2026.
Matt, to your question about college
education, having just gone through that
process with my oldest, I will say there
is this interesting uh calculus that I
didn't find myself making when I was a
kid. Do they have job programs to get
kids into jobs during whether it's the
summers and internships or not? That's
an increasing focus from pretty much
every college we visited. So, to your
point, definitely this is on their minds
as well.
>> And it's so much fun, right? College,
>> it's not if I can help it, not mine.
Anyway, Matt Miller, thank you so much
for joining over the past hour and 45
minutes. Happy New Year. Love the
outfit. I look forward to you in a kilt
next year. He's heading over to radio
studio and he'll be taking you through
the next 3 hours on TV and radio just
because he hasn't had enough and he
wants to really enjoy his uh heading
into the new year right now. [laughter]
By the way, I really love the jacket.
>> Are you going to switch it out to
different jackets throughout the day
like Mr. Rogers?
>> This is just a New Year's thing. So, but
yeah, next year if we have doubledigit
gains again, I will be on this program
in a kilt.
>> All right, right now we can hold him to
that. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Lizzie Burton.
Lizzie,
>> I don't know how I'm going to
concentrate with the thought of Mark
Miller's legs in my head in a kilt. But
moving to the news, we've got Elon
Musk's X AI purchasing a third uh
building in Memphis to expand its data
center complex. The billionaire wrote
OnX that it will bring the company's AI
computing p capacity to almost 2 gawatt.
Musk [music] has publicly discussed the
plans to build the world's largest data
center for AI training and posted
earlier this year that Colossus [music]
2 will eventually have 550,000 chips
from Nvidia. Now, if you're hoping to
get a Trump mobile phone, you're going
to have to wait a little bit longer.
According to the Financial Times, the
phone company launched by the
president's family [music] business
won't be available by the end of this
year as originally planned. The company
telling the FT that shipments of the
$499
gold colored phone were delayed by the
[music] recent government shutdown. And
revelers wanting to celebrate the new
year in New York's Time Square will need
to bundle up. New York City temperatures
are projected to drop as low as 26° F
with a chance of snow later in the
evening. Meanwhile, on the West Coast,
there's a raising risk of flash floods
in Los Angeles, and there's a near 100%
chance of a wet New Year's Day rose
parade. That should be my brief, Lisa.
Thank you so much, Lizzy. As you pointed
out, people will still have a good time.
And it's December, of course, it's going
to be cold in Times Square. Lizzie will
be back with us in just a little bit
with your morning movers. So, up next,
Winnie Caesar of Credit Swit uh credit
sites breaking down artificial
intelligence's growing share in the
public credit markets. Lizzie is going
to be taking a look at video [music] up
on reports that it's pushing for an
increase in H200 production over for
Chinese [music] consumption. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
The biggest risk is that the Fed has to
uh consider raising rates at some point
over the course of next year. That would
be the biggest shift that could
potentially throw a wrench into the
lowvall and easy financial conditions
and high overall base metal price
conditions that we are currently seeing
today. That was Mark Cabana of Bank of
America talking about the year- ahead
outlook and the potential for more rate
cuts. Right now in markets, [music] you
are seeing a new color after three days
of red. You are seeing some green,
although marginally so after the jobless
claims came [music] out below
expectations, essentially flat on S&P
and NASDAQ futures as well as Russell
2000 after four [music] three straight
sessions of losses. Meanwhile, in the
bond space, a reversal there as well.
You can see the 2-year yield in
particular [music] now up two basis
points after having been lower by a
basis point to four uh 3.47%.
You are seeing the selloff in a similar
fashion for [music] the 10-year at 4.14%
and that 30-year yield ending higher
than where we began the year 4.83%.
[music]
So we are seeing that yield curve
steepening for 2025. Under one hour away
from the cash open. Let's head over to
London with your morning movers with our
very own Lizzie Burton. Lizzy,
>> hi Lisa. Well, I want to start in the
chip space now because we have had the
news from Reuters that Nvidia's been
sounding out TSMC to help ramp up
production of its H200 AI chip. Now, we
don't know how many units it would be
ordering, but what we do know is that
it's got about 700,000 in stock and
about 2 million ordered by Chinese tech
firms for 2026. So Reuters reporting
that it's going to be TSMC that helps
fill that gap and the work [music] to
start in the second quarter of 2026. So
both of these up in the pre-market, but
if you flip the board over, you've got
losses in the pre-market for AMD and
Micron. Ah, we did earlier. They flipped
into the green like me. Uh, so it's
actually not such a mixed picture in the
chip space. Everybody looking to end
2025 in the green. Let's flip over now
to Nike as well because we've had the
CEO Elliot Hill buying a million dollars
worth of shares [music] this following
on the footsteps of the Apple CEO Tim
Cook. He bought 3 million on Christmas
Eve. So that stock liking it. The shares
up nearly 3% in the pre-market. Happy
New Year to you, Lisa. Happy New Year to
you, Lizzie. In green bringing the
market with you as you speak right now,
counting you down to the opening bell.
Here's a trading diary for the week
ahead and the start of the new year.
Tomorrow, markets are closed. Happy new
year and thank you for being with us.
Next Wednesday, we get data, ADP data,
Jolts data and ISM services. Thursday,
another round of jobless claims and the
trade balance. And on Friday, this is a
biggie, the December payrolls report and
University of Michigan consumer
sentiment. Turning to the tech story
that has been the dominant story for
2025, AI related debt issuance in public
markets is doubling this year as
buildout costs surge. Witty Caesar of
credit sites writing, "With spreads
still very tight, we are maintaining our
cautious view on credit risk and prefer
taking duration risk." Winnie joins us
now for more. And Winnie, thank you so
much for being with us. How much has the
increase in AI related issuance
increased the riskiness of the
investment grade debt market?
I think that uh Whitty if you could just
uh stick with us. I believe we are not
getting your sound. We will get back to
you in just one second. Just to point
out how much the returns have been. If
you take a look at investment grade
credit markets, you have seen an 8%
return so far this year. In the high
yield space, you have seen more than 9%
returns so far this year. Spreads have
tightened. That means the extra yield
over benchmark rates as people take a
look at credit profiles that have looked
better than expected in particular
because of what we have seen uh with uh
just companies terming out some of their
debt structures. But in the investment
grade credit space and this is something
that Torston Slock pointed out not so
long ago. You have seen an increase in
AI related issuance to about 14% of
total investment grade credit issuance
in 2025 versus 7% of issuance in 2024.
This has raised concerns about AI being
the dominant theme and frankly uh
overwhelming every trade in the market
whether it's in equities or whether it's
in credit. This is one of the reasons
why it has been incredibly concerning
for some investors who don't want to get
invested so heavily in particularly data
centers and other like aspects. At the
same time, these are companies with
incredible balance sheets the like of
Alphabet which issued a 50-year trunch
and we had on a guest earlier in this
week who talked about how we did
actually see buyers there for that
including herself because of the
duration. This is the reason why some
people are still leaning into this debt
because of the cash balances of so many
of these companies. Heading into next
year though, a lot of people saying that
credit spreads are priced to perfection.
You have seen credit spreads drop to
some of the lowest levels that we've
seen going back years. And frankly,
people are looking at this and saying
how much alpha actually is left. Right
now, you're seeing high yield credit
spreads ending the year at 2.67 six,
seven percentage points over benchmark
rates. That is one of the lowest rates
that we've seen over uh in history.
Going forward, one of the big questions
is going to be how much you get
volatility, how much private credit
could potentially be a concern,
especially given some of the opacity of
that. And then of course the rate
picture. And when you take a look at the
rate backdrop right now, you do see
yields just ticking higher because you
are not seeing the jobs picture fall
apart. Yesterday we did get the Fed
meeting minutes and they showed that
people were more concerned about the
labor market and potential weakness
there. Then in inflation, while
inflation has still remained above 2%
for five straight years, it has been
ticking lower. And people point to
things like the housing market that have
been uh pretty subdued that are not
adding really to any of that
inflationary pressure. When they take a
look at that, they emphasize the labor
market, which is the reason why you've
got two rate cuts priced into the market
for next year. Today, we saw jobless
claims actually come in lower than
expected. And right now, you are seeing
a selloff with two-year yields up two
basis points to 3.47%.
The 10ear space also selling off to uh
4.14%.
And you do see a steepening in the yield
curve throughout the day. And this has
been something that people have been
talking about. Let's head over to Lizzie
Burton right now to talk. Oh, excuse me.
Lizzy is not there. Uh, but coming to
the uh up on Friday, we are going to be
uh speaking to Jeff U of BNY Melon who's
going to lay out his look going forward
given the fact that right now people are
still expecting another double-digit
return for 2026. Jeff U of BNY Melon
will be joining us. Dan Ies of Wedbush,
Peter Shear of Academy Securities,
Katherine Rooney Vera of Stone X Group.
As we look forward to a new year, the
key aspect is going to be truly economic
data coming given the fact that we
haven't really gotten a clean read next
week or rather yeah, next week is going
to be the new year. We're going to be
getting ISM services, ADP employment, as
well as of course the jobs report for
December. That could potentially be the
first clean read. The key aspect there
is how much do you get an increase in
the unemployment rate? Something that
Croup has been pointing to given the
fact that if you do get a 4.7%
unemployment rate even with this low
highire low fire dynamic that could
indicate that the Fed could move as soon
as January 28th. One uh one aspect that
they highlighted in a note last night
was as the balance of sh of risks shifts
more towards downside risks to
employment and away from upside risks to
inflation, we continue to expect 75
basis points more of rate cuts in 2026.
That does it for me. It has been a
wonderful year with you. Thank you so
much for joining us on Bloomberg
Surveillance. We look forward to seeing
you bright and early in the new year on
Friday. from New [music] York. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Heat.